<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-8</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-8" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-12" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor042"></a>Chapter Eight</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor043"></a>An irrefusable offer</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor044"></a>Circa 6,500 years ago</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">Strange music played an intricate mathematical progression of mellow strings. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix screamed as his body was cut open. There was little pain. Cawl was no sadist, but certain of the procedures demanded that his subjects remain conscious, and the smell of Felix’s own burning flesh as the las-scalpels sliced it terrified him. The lack of human company made it worse. He was on his own, surrounded by unfeeling machines that moved around him on their predetermined paths of torment, incapable of hearing his terror or of feeling mercy. Mechanical spider limbs bearing blades and laser cutters and little pots of quivering organic jellies blurred past. Today, they were cutting into his skull. His head was pinned into place and he could not move. He felt the rubber tips of ruthless fingers peel back his scalp, heard the whining screech of blade biting bone, felt the soft cup suck onto his cranium and remove the top of his skull as if it were the lid to a jar.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Other machines put things in there. They poked his brain. Strange colours bled across his vision. Phantom smells teased him. He burst into song through his tears as the seat of his soul was prodded, tugged and tested. And it went on, and on and on. There were hundreds of other youths undergoing the same procedures. He could hear them outside his sealed, sterile tube. Hundreds of other boys who were not really boys any more, but hormone bulked warrior-things halfway to maturity. Many of them screamed and cried. Felix need not have been ashamed of his fear.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘Integration of stage five at ninety-seven per cent. Primaris subject 10-079-983 operating within optimal parameters.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A cool counterseptic mist squirted over his exposed brain.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Please, please let me go,’ he pleaded.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang. </span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A soft bump as his skullcap kissed his lower cranium. The whining busyness of a bone welder moved around his head. Hot bone smell made him want to sneeze. The thought of that panicked him. He envisioned his brain shaken loose.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Please,’ he whimpered, as his shaved scalp was tucked back into place and another arm bearing spools of thread and a jabbing needle stitched it tight.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A cold nozzle pressed into the crook of his clamped-down arm and hissed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Please,’ he said. He was falling asleep.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘Be brave, my little warriors,’ </span>said the monster’s voice over the music. <span class="Italic">‘I offer you something no other shall have. Power to serve humanity as no others have served. In service to mankind there is glory.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘But I don’t…’ Felix slurred. ‘But I don’t want power…’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang!</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘And that is why you shall have it,’ said the monster, close by his ear.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Blackness, then:</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Where are we going?’ said a voice that was the monster’s, but not. ‘Can you not at least tell me that?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No,’ said another voice, a woman. ‘Patience, please.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang!</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘But I don’t…’</p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic">Circa <a id="_idTextAnchor045"></a>10,000 years ago</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">‘…see why you can’t explain just a little to us.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The woman came to a standstill so suddenly her boots squeaked on the black marble floor, bringing Cawl and Friedisch to an ungraceful halt. Her soldiers stopped flawlessly. ‘My information was correct. You are irritatingly garrulous.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They were far away from the miserable districts housing the refugees, high up in Ryza’s upper levels, where glorious ways clad in precious stone and chased with symbolic, golden circuitry lifted high ceilings on fine columns, and the priests of the Cult Mechanicus went about in dignified debate, guarded by cyborgs with burnished augmetics. Cawl took it all in his stride, behaving as if he belonged there. Friedisch cowered, so overawed by the high and mighty cult lords around him he shrank away when they so much as glanced at him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl smiled ingratiatingly. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Speech is the first mode of informational exchange. My entire life, my entire culture is concerned with the acquisition of information. You must forgive me a few questions,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The woman gave him a hard look. ‘The Cult Mechanicus,’ she shook her head. ‘The Emperor should never have thrown in His lot with your kind. You are anathema to the Imperial Truth. Gods. Worship of knowledge. Insanity.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">She resumed walking. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Without our knowledge none of your warriors’ enhancements would be possible!’ said Cawl. He waved his hand at the woman’s guards. ‘Our veneration of the Machine-God’s truths has preserved His gifts.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">She stopped again. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Science made my warriors,’ she said. ‘Not superstition. Not praying to a non-existent god. Not singing to anything. I am a scientist. You are a witch doctor.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">She began walking again, faster this time, so that Cawl and Friedisch were forced into a trot to keep up with her.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then we are of one mind, surely,’ said Cawl. ‘You and I are both questers for the truth.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We are not,’ she said. ‘I pursue the truth. You follow a religion. There is no gulf wider than that between our opinions in all the universe.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I think you are wrong,’ said Cawl, who was never one to let a good debate die. ‘Faith in rationalism is still faith.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I think you’re a threat to the Imperium,’ she said. ‘There has never been and never will be a true religion, except that followed by the Great Enemy, and that is not only evil to the root, it is predicated on a billion lies.’ She didn’t address them, but shouted forwards, as if she couldn’t even bring herself to look at the tech-priests. ‘Yet we rationalists dwindle, while your kind prospers. The inclusion of the Adeptus Mechanicus on the Council of Terra is the death knell for reason. So you enjoy your moral superiority all you want in the coming years,’ she said. ‘I want you to remember my words, because my opinion will trouble you for all time.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">She turned down a side corridor, smaller than the major way they had been following, and ablaze with the light of knowledge conveyed down optic datapipes embedded in the walls.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Why?’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Because I believe you know that it is true.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They arrived at a golden door twice the height of a man, guarded by cyborg warriors almost as tall.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Why have you brought us here to the uppermost sky levels, if you hate us so much?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I have been ordered to,’ she said. ‘I am doing my job.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">She stood still while scans from the heavy combat servitors ran down her body from top to toe.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It’s not me that wants you,’ she said. ‘If it were my decision, we would never have come here. The Lord Geneticist, Director Ezekiel Sedayne, wishes to meet you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl was surprised. ‘I know that name!’ he said. ‘Ezekiel Sedayne. Is he here on Ryza?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You may enter, Altrix Herminia,’ the servitors boomed in unison.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘He is not,’ said the Altrix. The doors opened onto a hangar housing a small, sleek ground-to-orbit transfer shuttle. An atmospheric shield shone over the entrance. They were so high up in the Ryzan cityscape that the smoggy brown of the atmosphere turned to black at the top of the view, and the steel-skinned planet curved away below into petro­chemical obscurity. ‘He is on Terra, and he wishes to see you there.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Terra?’ said Friedisch. ‘We’re going to Terra?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Not you, just him,’ said the Altrix. ‘You’re staying here.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Something in the hangar made a hollow bang.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Hang on just one moment,’ said Cawl, holding up a finger. He gave the Altrix his most winning smile. ‘I’m not going anywhere without Friedisch. If this Director Sedayne wants to see me, Friedisch comes too.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What is that noise?’ said Friedisch.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Altrix Herminia sighed in annoyance. ‘Very well. But I warn you that you have very little room to bargain. Do not use up my good graces at once. When we arrive at Terra you may wish to save all the favours you can for your negotiations with Director Sedayne.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Bargain?’ said Friedisch. ‘Negotiations? What is that banging?’ He peered round the door.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do stop that, Friedisch,’ said Cawl. ‘All that simpering. What bargain?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The Lord Sedayne has an offer for you.’ She smiled unpleasantly. ‘I sincerely advise you not to reject it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang!</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘One of your servitors is malfunctioning,’ said Friedisch, pointing out a cyborg repeatedly walking into the wall. ‘I can fix it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang! </span>The metal body case thumped into the metal.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What if we elect to stay here?’ said Cawl, also ignoring Friedisch.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It’s a little too late for that.’ Her warriors spread out behind the priests, guns raised. ‘You’re coming with me, like it or not.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">BANG!</span></p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic">Circa <a id="_idTextAnchor046"></a>10,000 years ago</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">The metal hammered the boulder twice in succession.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang! Bang!</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The cliffs reached up for slate grey heavens. The world was of dust and sand. There were signs everywhere that it was not always so. Erosive water patterns carved the stone into smooth undulations, so very different to the shapes cut by wind. Organic traces clung on, though long dead, dried-out roots and preserved rhizomes excavated by the careful archaeology of the breeze.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang. Bang. </span>The wind was getting into its stride, lifting up the dust of a thousand dead civilisations, casting handfuls of grave gravel against stone, chipping it away grain by grain to the beat of the metallic drum, uncovering and recovering the mess of forty thousand years of human civilisation.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Did I disturb you?’ the man’s voice said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The natural reaction was to turn and look. Cawl began the process, but he could not turn. The act should have been simplicity itself. All he had to do was move; a cascade of synaptic impulses racing from the brain, decided subconsciously before conscious decision, the id tricking the ego, that deception that enables all humans to be without being, activating the limbs, setting the body in motion, all without choice but with the illusion of choice.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Turn.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Simple. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">But he did not turn.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang. Bang.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl bowed his head and dropped to his knee, facing away from the man. He did not like to kneel, he never had, being so tall it made him look ridiculous, but the being demanded it. Not the man Himself. He disliked bowing and scraping, but the essence of Him, His soul, was so potent you could feel the heat of it on your skin. That screamed out for respect. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He had no name, at least not one that He shared, but He called Himself the Emperor of Mankind. The gall to call oneself so seemed immense, until you met Him. Anyone who had ever met Him knew the title was no hollow conceit. It was not born of arrogance. It was simply apt.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You may rise,’ said the Emperor. ‘You have no need to kneel. Knowledge should not kneel to power.’ He smiled. His humour washed over Cawl in a warm, uplifting wave. ‘It should be the other way around. Alas it is not always so, but we should try our best to treat each other with respect and make it true.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I could not have said it better myself,’ said Cawl. He got to his feet. Still he did not look, but kept his eyes downcast. He had a fleeting sight of a brown-skinned hand. He looked away from it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang. </span>The metal cared nothing for the doings of men, no matter how mighty. It cared only for its feud with the rock. <span class="Italic">Bang!</span></p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic">Circa <a id="_idTextAnchor047"></a>100 years ago</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><span class="Italic">Bang! Bang! Bang!</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Fall back! The outer gate is taken! Fall back to the walls!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian stood on the bastion walk abutting the main gatehouse, looking down into a courtyard where death reigned unopposed. An Icarus quad cannon chattered violently off to his right in front of the outermost tower of the main gate. Walls behind him rose to the sky, walls that should have been strong enough to hold back any enemy. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The men that built them had not accounted for the hive fleets.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A carnifex reared up in fury and took its death wound from a lascannon fired at point-blank range. The beast flung its club fists wide, and it flopped down with a crack of chitin on rockcrete. But its work was done. The barricades across the gateway were smashed aside, leaving the bailey unprotected. Two more carnifexes lumbered through the gate over their fallen broodmate. Massive talons stabbed at men. One of the beasts carried a biocannon whose ammunition sacs pulsed with its eagerness to fire. Its embedded eye roved over the banquet of targets. The carnifex raised the weapon, the sacs constricted, and a rush of hyper-acidic bile engulfed two Space Marines. The agony they endured as it ate through their soft seals and into their bodies was enough to make the Emperor’s chosen scream.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">All along the bailey wall, Thracian’s warriors were embattled. Creatures bounded up the dead piled at the foot of the fortifications, using them as ramps to launch themselves at the defenders. They did not care for their own survival. Most were blown apart, but for every hundred that cast themselves to certain death, one got through, and the horde numbered in the millions.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There were hundreds of thousands of winged tyranids, too many to count, so many they filled the sky with an endless blur of crimson and cream. They shrieked as they flew, as if they were in pain, a harsh chorus that blended into one unending wail so overpowering it seemed it would outlast the universe. A constant barrage from the fortress’ guns punched holes in the swarm, creating a rain of blood and flesh. The void shield flickered, pulsing sheets of purple light when bombardment cysts impacted it. Some thousands of the beasts were caught by displacement after-effects and ripped apart. Others flew so fast they tripped the shields themselves, but each hole torn into the living clouds closed instantly, swallowed as swiftly as stones in a lake.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A gargoyle dived at Thracian, vomiting bioplasma from its mouth while the weapon thing bonded to its forelimbs squirmed and spasmed, ejaculating a stream of acidic slime and frenzied beetles. The insects splattered harmlessly off Thracian’s battleplate. The plasma nearly took off his head.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian loosed a single bolt as he dived aside. His unerring aim hit the gargoyle square in the chest. The bolt exploded deep inside, obliterating the torso. The flock sped around the explosion. Detached leathery wings spiralled down and came apart like quicktree seeds in the autumn.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">All along the battlement yellow-and-black-armoured Space Marines fired upwards, boltguns on full automatic shaking their arms. They crossed their fire with perfect discipline, covering each other when they had to reload. The rain of fluid and shattered flesh splattered men, fortifications and machines so all was slick with alien vitae. Bowed serfs ran along the ramparts, handing precious clips of bolt-rounds to their masters from the ammunition sleds they dragged. The sleds were getting lighter. The Chapter was running out of ammunition. At the start of the invasion, the armoury had brimmed with a brassy treasure of bullets. They had spent it quickly. If Thracian had had time to check the ammo counts for his men, he would have seen a bank of angry red digits blinking down to zero, but he had fewer seconds to spare than he had bolts.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Mortis runes clamoured for his attention. His eyes darted across the walls to seek their sources. Brother Bastable carried down by three gaunts. Brother Genuous obliterated by a plasma blast. Brother Frodan thrashing under a flock of winged rippers. Everywhere he turned to watch, another warrior died on the wall. His Apothecaries dashed from place to place, trying to salvage precious geneseed. One was plucked off his feet and borne skywards. Another was forced back by the tide of the enemy from his brothers, whose writhing bodies were buried by swarms of tiny, toothed organisms.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Scythes of the Emperor were dying quickly. ‘Get back to the main wall! Abandon the outer defences!’ he roared from his voxmitter, simultaneously sending the message by company-wide vox-link. He pulsed urgent runes of retreat and consolidation to his men. The fortress-monastery’s curtain wall soared above them, seemingly indomitable.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">But it was not enough. It could never be enough.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The carnifexes at the gates came forwards under heavy fire. Their footsteps shook the ground. Like a bullet easing from a wound in a surgeon’s tweezers, the first entered the courtyard, then the second, and a flood of death came behind them, red as blood.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Back to the main walls!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Doorways led into the main gatehouse towers from the bailey wall walk, offering a chance of continuing the fight, at least for a while. But his men were beleagured, and promised reinforcements from Sothopolis were slow in arriving. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Retreat!’ shouted Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Those Scythes on the left wall walk, that part built into the cliff-face of Mount Pharos’ peak, were cutting their way through the flocks of gargoyles and making for the armoured portal. Thracian covered his men, waving them through, counting off each one safely inside the walls with paternal relief as they passed him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Move move move!’ he yelled, slapping his warriors on their ­pauldrons, firing at the beasts trying to end them. A million monsters came for them, landing on the walls. Though the aerial tyranids were helpless on the ground, they were driven by their overlords to hurl themselves onto the battlements, where they flopped and screeched and bit. Boots smashed crested heads. Guns ended hundreds of xenos lives. Under Thracian’s guidance, the left wall emptied of Space Marines.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">On the right, the situation was hopeless. The walls there rose atop the cliffs, and looked down a sheer drop of thousands of feet onto the distant roofs of Sothopolis. The cliff was no protection. The enemy swarmed over the walls. The Scythes of the Emperor there were isolated from one another and split into twos or threes. Things with bony blades for limbs scrambled up the sheer face of the mountain and leapt over the crenellations. The warriors on the main wall were too preoccupied with the endless swarms to provide covering fire. Those on the left were intent on their own escape. Out there on the right, Thracian’s men were dying, close enough to see, too far away to help.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The mortis alarms rang on. The fingernail pictograph display of his company pulsed with amber and red lights as his squads were annihilated.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Something shook the fortress. Something from inside. A small tremor, significant nonetheless.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The guns cut out.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian stared at the sky.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The void shield flickered and died. The swarms poured down unhindered. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Command, the defence batteries have ceased firing,’ said Thracian. For the first time in a hundred years, he felt panic. ‘The shields are down! Advise immediate evacuation. Command, please advise!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He moved to the side to avoid a plummeting gargoyle. It smashed wetly on the wall walk where he had been standing. He shot down three more with his bolt pistol.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Vox-comms from the citadel bleeped for his attention. A line of text on the helmplate spelled out Captain Mercyria’s name.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘Main guns are off line. Down to lesser turrets. Get back from the walls. We will hold them at bay until the others return. Await reinforcement from the Sotharan defence force.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We need to evacuate! There are no reinforcements!’ Thracian shouted. The hissing and shrieking of the tyranids was deafening despite the best efforts of his autosenses to dampen it. ‘Thorcyra would not want this! We will be destroyed. We must abandon Sotha!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘Thorcyra is not here. We must fall back. Hold the citadel until the rest of the Chapter responds to the recall.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This is suicide,’ Thracian replied. ‘Sotha is lost. Our defences are gone.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘Our brothers are coming. The people of this world are coming. We cannot leave them to face this alone.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Our brothers are dead. The message went out too late. Sotharan ground forces have likely been annihilated. We condemn the Chapter to extinction if we remain. You are dooming us, brother.’ Thracian shot four bolts one after the other, each one bringing a kill-sign clarion from his helm.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘I am in command,’ </span>Mercyria said. <span class="Italic">‘Retreat to the citadel.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian swore. The sky swarm was thinning. He was too well versed in the tactics of the hive mind to see this as a reprieve.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The tyranids had seen the shields were gone.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Incoming spore drop!’ he bellowed. The last of his men that could were retreating through the tower portals. Seven were left isolated in a courtyard now crawling with xenos. He looked skywards. The gargoyles and shrikes were swirling around in a vortex that reached for the void, creating a clear space down to the ground. He saw the low bodies of huge hive ships in the sky, white and blue as a daytime moon in the sunlight. From them black shapes fell.<span class="Italic"> </span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Anti-air wall guns, prioritise drop spores!’ he commanded. The last of his men was through the left door portal. It rotated shut, crushing a gargoyle scuttling after to paste. ‘Seal left wall gate!’ In the wall, mechanisms injected fast-setting ferrofoams into the door cavity. Thracian descended stairs into the courtyard, and ran towards the right portal to help the warriors retreating there. The huge reliefs of the main gates towered beside him. Two of his warriors ran to join him, taking it in turns to fire backwards and cover his advance. He raced to save another Scythe, only to see him transfixed on the sharp claws of a stooping shrike and carried off. Spores were hurtling towards the courtyard. The first was misjudged, slamming into the cliff, exploding fluids and dead gaunt strain attack beasts everywhere. The last of his men in the yard was sinking to his knees, moaning, his flesh melting under jets of hyper acid coming in from all sides.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian took careful aim and put a bolt through his head.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Red outlines in his company schema chastened him. He had lost more than half his company.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">More spores came down. They had no braking mechanisms, but hit the ground at full speed, bursting on impact. Tyranid warriors struggled free dripping in shock-gels, opening fire as soon as their guns were clear of the flaccid skins of the spores.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He ascended the right hand stairs to the door in the tower. He could see Sothopolis from there. Its streets were full of a churning mass of aliens.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A few Space Marine stragglers were limping through the door.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘All squads, prepare to reform.’ Thracian looked up to the citadel that enwrapped the peak of Mount Sotha, and the ancient tower at the very centre. Black swarms of tyranids raged around it, swirling and diving in eerily synchronised murmurations. He paused a moment, caught on the knife blade of decision.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘All company Thunderhawks, prepare for immediate evacuation. Company, retreat to main hangar. We are leaving. May the Emperor guard us all,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He turned to go. Between him and the door, the Icarus quad cannon continued to shoot, its machine-spirit smoothly spinning the gun on its turntable to track the creatures in the sky. It banged death in four-shot bursts.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang bang bang bang. Bang bang bang bang. Bang bang bang bang.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The sound thumped into Thracian’s head. The battle’s noise receded. He found he could not move. Slowly, he lowered his weapons. There was something behind him. Something vast and cold.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He turned slowly, and looked up into the dead black eyes of a shrike. It towered over him, the upper wing limbs furled, its biocannon throbbing with the expectation of release.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">It did not fire; instead it leaned down, mouth hissing. Something looked out from behind its eyes that was immeasurably ancient and evil.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The thing there in the blackness of its soul touched his mind. It judged him. It pinned him in place. Thracian found he could not move, such was the potency of its regard.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A spray of yellow blood erupted from the thing’s gut. Bolt explosions ripped it in half. The top fell away, the legs folded into themselves. The spell was broken.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Brother Scaedus of the third tactical squad marched forwards, the ammo feeds on his heavy bolter clunking as they drew fresh rounds from his backpack hopper, and grabbed Thracian’s pauldron.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My lord!’ he said. ‘Through the wall! Back behind the main defences!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A warrior lacking his legs was dragged through the door by his brothers. Ceramite clanged from adamantium, blood leaked onto the ground.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I…’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You ordered us to retreat! Thracian!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I…’</p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic">Now</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">‘Chapter Master,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian blinked. He was on the wall. The quad cannon was silent at his back. Not then but now. The dead were gone. The tyranids absent. Cold stars burned in place of the stolen sky. The tetrarch stood in front of him with the Archmagos Dominus Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What did you see?’ Felix demanded urgently. ‘What did you see?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I saw the end of the world,’ said Thracian numbly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I saw the day I was made,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am not alone?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We all saw something,’ said Felix. ‘But you were entranced the longest. You ran up here. None of us could stop you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What about my warriors?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Safe, though all experienced visions.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There were stories,’ Thracian began. ‘Stories about the mountain…’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Interesting,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You saw something? What did you see?’ Thracian asked.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Belisarius Cawl smiled.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Something almost as interesting as that.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He pointed at the wall gun, and the bright silver threads connecting it to the black rock of the mountain.</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>