<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-5</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-5" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-9" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor026"></a>Chapter Five</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor027"></a>The Three Ursine Hypothesis</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor028"></a> <br/> </span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor029"></a>Felix stood by the forward left access ramp of the Overlord. The hangar was cramped with Space Marines, servitors and tech-priests all attempting to get their equipment aboard his ship. Felix insisted on a low-key initial insertion, not wishing to awaken tyranid rearguard organisms or trip the fortress-monastery’s auto-defences, should any remain operational. The Overlord was a large drop ship, more than capable of taking Qvo’s cadre of tech-priests and Thracian’s men. Getting them aboard in an orderly manner was taxing his Chosen.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He watched the <span class="Italic">Zar Quaesitor </span>through the small portion of the hangar aperture visible past the Overlord. Cawl’s acolytes were still streaming across from the ark in lines of shuttlecraft. They flooded the Aegidan orbital, greatly adding to those already working under Qvo-87. The derelict orbital rang to the sounds of industry from all quarters. On the other side of the partition dividing the hangar, the Adeptus Mechanicus were hard at work, and vibrations from their efforts shook the deckplates. Past the Overlord’s stubby wings, Felix saw a hull section prefabricated in the holds of the<span class="Italic"> Zar Quaesitor</span> emerging from foundry gates. Bathed in the glaring light of the ark’s forge decks, the section drifted forwards unpowered until small fleets of servitor craft fell in around it, snared it with cabling, and commenced dragging it towards the platform.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My lord,’ Thracian interrupted him. ‘We have nearly finished loading our equipment.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Four of the veteran Scythes of the Emperor were escorting a methalon casket up the right hand access ramp. Tech-priests loading their own materials stopped and offered prayers to the device. Heavy vapours streamed down from exhaust vents, curling in strangely regular patterns in the suspensor fields holding the casket above the ground. The casket was of a different sort to those aboard Cawl’s ship, but close enough that its presence chilled Felix’s hearts.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Genovaults,’ said Felix. ‘You are bringing your geneseed with us.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That of the older Space Marines. Once, the lifeblood of my Chapter,’ Thracian looked pained, ‘now a relic I must lay to rest. It is useless now it has been superseded, but it is worthy of our respect still. I wish to take it to the Vault of Heroes and see it properly interred along with the remains of my fallen brothers.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">It was clear that this was not the whole truth. Before Felix could press Thracian further, the heavy tread of a Primaris Space Marine approached from behind. His signum broadcast indicated he was an ally. He was not, however, one of Felix’s own.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Alpha Primus,’ said Felix, and turned around to face Cawl’s giant.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I will see to the final loading of my warriors,’ Thracian said, excusing himself.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus watched the other leave with sad eyes. ‘You called for me, tetrarch,’ he said dourly, when Thracian was gone. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Alpha Primus was like no other Space Marine Felix had seen. He was huge, even by Primaris standards, and a strange-looking individual in many other ways. There was a coppery sheen to his pale, horribly scarred skin. His eyes were black with just a hint of white around huge pupils. His habitually shaved head and chin were dark with fast growing stubble. There was an air of great potency around him that set Felix on guard whenever they met. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus’ embassy in Cawl’s stead was irritating, and insulting. Felix had never liked the man, and his presence provoked painful memories. Cawl had yet to show his face in person. Felix wanted more than anything to get that meeting over with. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He was therefore short-tempered.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Where is the archmagos?’ said Felix. ‘When will he inform us what he intends?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus stared down at him lugubriously. ‘You ask me again, my lord. I can only say he will meet you on the surface as I have already relayed.’ </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">His lips were plump and purplish, always downturned, giving him a saturnine expression. It suited his soul, thought Felix. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The archmagos dominus has many preparations to make before we descend.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix looked out to the <span class="Italic">Zar Quaesitor</span> and its fleet of attendant ships. The void was alive around it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Tell him again that the Primarch Roboute Guilliman has given me express orders that he is to report to me immediately. The archmagos has been out of direct contact for years. In the absence of regular communications, the lord regent expects a full report from me on Cawl and his activities soon.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It will all become clear, I am sure,’ said Primus unenthusiastically. ‘I am powerless to compel him to attend you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A vox-chime announced word from the command deck, where Daelus had assumed charge while Thracian’s men prepared for the return to Sotha.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘Tetrarch. There’s something about to happen on Cawl’s ship.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Details,’ Felix demanded.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘I’d give them if I had them. I’m reading an immense power surge from the </span>Zar Quaesitor’<span class="Italic">s reactors. The most likely theoretical is that he is about to open fire on Sotha. But there’s something more behind it. I’ll run further scans to see if I can find out, but the vessel has every augur baffle known to man.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix rounded on Primus. ‘I told you to tell him that this mission was to be undertaken cautiously.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus stared back at him sadly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Daelus voxed again.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘My lord, it’s not just weapons. Can you see the front of the ark?’</span> said the Techmarine.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Not from this position.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘I would take a look outside if I were you. I don’t think you’ll like what Cawl’s doing.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix made a noise of annoyance and ducked under the Overlord’s drooping prows. In a half crouch to allow him to pass under the central fuselage, he made his way to the hangar entrance, where he stood tall again under the Overlord’s thruster arrays just inside the atmospheric field.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘By the Throne,’ swore Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The <span class="Italic">Zar Quaesitor</span> was coming apart. Its blunt, aggressive bow was detaching, revealing itself as a self-contained subsidiary vessel. It was but a part of the ark, but large in its own right, big enough to land lances of knights, thought Felix. Clamps came free and puffs of gas burst all round it to push it from its housing. It slid along and then off a connecting arm, pipes and cables popping free and reeling themselves in to the larger part of the ark.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Alpha Primus emerged with difficulty from underneath the Overlord.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do you care to explain what your master is doing?’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I do not know what he is doing. I can only apologise,’ said Alpha Primus. ‘What more can I do? Belisarius Cawl is as Belisarius Cawl does. He is the Prime Conduit of the Omnissiah, a law unto himself.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hundreds of servitor escort craft streamed out of the ark’s hangars and flew after the giant lander. Unhindered by atmosphere, the flotilla proceeded at a steady pace towards the surface.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘If there is anything down there, it is now aware we are coming,’ said Felix. ‘And if any part of the fortress-monastery’s defence matrix remains active, he risks triggering it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am sure my master has taken that into account,’ said Alpha Primus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘Lord Felix, the </span>Zar Quaesitor<span class="Italic">’s weapons are charged and are about to open fire.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Huge energy cannons pushed themselves out of gunports all along the ventral line of the ship. They fired as one, sectioning a large area around Mount Pharos with a square of brilliant white light.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I see,’ said Alpha Primus. ‘Neutron beamers. Anything around the landing zone will have been instantly killed,’ he said. ‘I would not worry. My master has an answer for everything.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes,’ said Felix, annoyed by his reaction to Cawl’s behaviour. ‘So, it appears, do you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It was the way he made me,’ said Primus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix pushed past the bigger Space Marine and returned to the confusion around the front of the Overlord, where he waited to be away after Cawl.</p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor030"></a>By the time the Overlord was loaded with Qvo-87’s equipment, Cawl had already been on the ground for two hours. Felix’s temper strained to the point that he was set on challenging Qvo about the delay, and accusing him of keeping them back purposefully, but just as he resolved to do so, Qvo-87 came to him with many apologies and assurances that all was done, citing the gathering-up, reprogramming and loading of rare marques of servitor that could not be left behind as the reason for his tardiness.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">So it was that finally, Daelus eased the Overlord out of its cramped nest and set it on the way to the surface. Felix and Thracian rode in the cockpit, despite Cominus’ habitual misgivings about the risk.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘He would keep me in a box, if he could,’ Felix confessed to Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Overlord ventured once more into the void. From outside they saw that the repairs to the main hangar on the station underside were close to completion. That was a far greater space, and much better suited to a gunship of the Overlord’s size class, than the smaller, subsidiary dock. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It will be easier getting back into the station,’ said the Techmarine. ‘Qvo-87 works fast.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is a marvel, and a gift, that the Adeptus Mechanicus provide us,’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix felt little of the gratitude Thracian did. Cawl could grant him every technological favour in the galaxy and it would never be enough to make up for the years Felix spent as his test subject. Until Felix had got his meeting with Cawl out of the way, he would find no peace. It was always that way, whenever they encountered one another.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">With great impatience, he watched Sotha approach.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">All trace of atmosphere had been ripped away by the hive fleet. Although the system’s other worlds had been touched, they had been but lightly, with minor harvesting of the two gas giants and cometary cloud. Living worlds always suffered the most, for the tyranids ever sought genetic material over baser forms of sustenance.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Nothing remained alive on the surface of Sotha. From high orbit it looked like a barren garden patch, with a few handfuls of dry stalks poking from the dust. As the Overlord descended these resolved themselves into the lacy remains of feeding towers. The fleshy parts had been stripped from them, leaving behind the mineral structure that held them aloft. This was durable, keeping a portion of the feeding towers upright even without their musculature and flesh tethers, and evidently problematic enough for the hive fleet to reabsorb that it was left behind.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Other than these alien additions, the world was bizarrely pristine. Once more Felix was reminded of a model created to show planetary geology. The details of the world’s topography were exposed. Never had he seen a continental shelf or oceanic plain so clearly displayed other than on a geologian’s orb. The Overlord roared over the flatness of the empty seas towards Sothopolis, the world’s capital and only city of significant size, above whose airless streets Mount Pharos reared high. Pict files flicking through Felix’s retinal displays showed Sotha to be verdant. All that was gone, devoured. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They left only stone,’ Thracian said grimly. The Chapter Master was shaken in a way one would not expect of the Adeptus Astartes. This was his homeworld and its protection had been his Chapter’s prime duty. Rarely would a Space Marine be confronted with a failure this complete, and seeing Sotha so denuded, Felix shared some of his shock.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They came in obliquely towards Sothopolis. Felix’s wargear cogitator used the picts to superimpose emerald oceans over the cracked stone, and he saw the world simultaneously as it was and as it had been. Plains of dry seas rose from depths to shallows, and finally to the shore, where wealthy districts once enjoyed far reaching ocean views and now-blind windows gazed at empty immensities. Felix had seen a few worlds ravaged by the tyranids – they were lamentably common in the east of Greater Ultramar – but somehow Sotha was particularly awful. Everywhere were signs that this had been a thriving, life-rich world. Ships lay like discarded toys in ocean dust sucked free of all organic matter. Piers extended over bare rock from the dockside. The Overlord flew over the shoreline, and Felix found himself looking down at a city in an eerie state. In places the battle for the world had levelled blocks. Damage from large-scale bioweapons carved gouges into the suburbs, but impact sites were the exception. The tyranids’ favoured mode of attack was ground invasion. Imperial scholars theorised that it was the most economical means of offence and risked the least damage to their food source. Where cities were concerned, tyranid methods left untouched infrastructure isolated in a world of dust. Sothopolis was a small city, but there were whole, pristine districts where glass still glinted in roofs and ground vehicles waited for passengers that would never come.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Mount Pharos dominated the landscape. In life a green king, in death a slumbering gyptian faro. Atop its peak the fortress-monastery of the Scythes of the Emperor stood. The Blackrock Mountains to the east, of which Mount Pharos was a distant outlier, toothed the horizon, and with the fang of the fallen monastery close to the ship, the landscape gave Felix the impression of open jaws about to snap shut.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The state of Sotha sank him into a black mood. There was so much to be done. The ravages of Kraken were the least of the sector’s concerns. Mortarion’s forces still attacked Ultramar, and large tracts of the jewelled realm were poisoned beyond repair. What could be set right would take decades, if not centuries. What could he, one man, do?</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The crackling of spiking rad-sensors broke his ruminations. They were passing over the area cleansed by Cawl’s eradication beamers. The instrument noise rose to a crackling crescendo and held there.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We’re approaching the fortress-monastery exclusion zone, my lords,’ said Daelus. ‘No sign of activity from the defence matrix. Shields are down. I have minimal power readings from the monastery generatoria.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Our orbital guns failed,’ said Thracian quietly. ‘Our anti-air defences did not last long after that. Kraken has evolved to perfect the art of aerial assault. When we left, nothing remained functional.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Nevertheless, we should be careful,’ said Felix. ‘Brother Techmarine, take us closer to the mountain,’ he ordered. ‘Close enough to trigger close-range defensive responses. If there is no response, we shall see if we can land directly at the fortress-monastery. That will save us much time and effort.’ The growl of the rad-sensor climbed abruptly as they crossed some deadly, invisible line. ‘Curse Cawl’s arrogance. This radiation will make our mission all the more difficult.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is within survivable parameters, my lord,’ said Daelus. He banked the Overlord round. Shore and mountain squeezed the coastal plain and it was quickly crossed. Mount Pharos opposed them, its soaring cliffs barring their way. Daelus put the ship into a slow spiralling ascent. Felix observed the world through his retinal display while looking through the window. The Overlord machine-spirit’s augur input pulsed directly to his autosenses. Although it would be overwhelming for all but the most highly trained mortal, such a profusion of data was simple enough for a Space Marine to assimilate.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">An outlying castellum watching over the capital lay toppled at the mountain’s feet. A switchback access road crawled upwards from the site of the ruins past hundreds of rounded cavern mouths covering the slopes from foot to crown.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Incredible,’ said Thracian. ‘So many caves. I don’t think we knew how many. With the quicktrees gone only now are they visible.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They were not mapped?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Some, yes,’ said Thracian. ‘All cartographical data had to be gathered first hand. The mountain had its secrets. It was resistant to scans. Our people say the caves moved, and there are legends from millennia ago. I did not believe most, but–’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">An alarm peeped over the crackle of the rad counter.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Our presence is getting a response,’ said Daelus. ‘I have signals. Weapons augurs attempting to secure a lock.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Hold at this distance,’ ordered Felix. ‘What has us in sight?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Short to mid-range weapons batteries. It looks like all the major orbital weapons are down. But I am seeing las, plasma and missile tracking us. Hang on, no. There’s one defence laser active. Possibly two.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘How can that be?’ said Felix. ‘You said the guns failed.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I have no answer,’ said Thracian. ‘But I do not lie.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No communications… That’s odd.’ Daelus took his hand off the flight stick and peered at a screen. ‘Troncus, take the helm.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Daelus’ co-pilot, wordless as ever, switched control to his station.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What is it?’ Felix said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Daelus slid his chair along rails to a sensorium suite next to the pilot’s chair. The mortal manning it moved his own seat aside so Daelus could access it. ‘It could be interference from Cawl’s eradication beams, but these energy readings are a little peculiar,’ said Daelus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Peculiar how?’ Felix demanded.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Non-Imperial peculiar,’ said Daelus. He worked quickly at the console. ‘I am attempting to shut the defence grid down, but the system is not responding. It should recognise us as friendly. It is ignoring our identification signum chain. That should override everything.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is an older system,’ said Thracian. ‘Sotha fell before the primarch rose again. Our noosphere and cogitator infrastructure was not initiated into the mysteries of the neo-tetrarchy. It does not know you. What about the Scythes’ codes?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I’ve tried them. They are also non-effective,’ said Daelus distractedly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The vox squawked a rush of static. From out of the sleety hiss of radioactive emanations, a stentorian machine voice emerged.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘You are entering restricted airspace. Remove yourselves or face destruction by order of the Scythes of the Emperor. You are entering restricted airspace. Remove yourselves or face destruction by order of the Scythes of the Emperor.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘A generous warding beacon,’ said Daelus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Our fortress was close to the civilian population centre, as you can see,’ said Thracian. ‘The main starport is not far to the north.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What’s left seems feeble, my lord,’ said Daelus, sitting back. ‘The Overlord can take it if you wish to put down. I do not think we are in any danger.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What state are the fortress-monastery’s hangars in?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Blocked, my lord. Doors shut over three main flight bays, no power to any of them. A couple of the upper landing pads are viable. The rest are collapsed,’ said Daelus. ‘I could try this hangar.’ He tapped at a screen. ‘I could shoot our way in. Or this landing pad at the northern end.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘If there are enemies inside the Emperor’s Watch, we could be walking into an ambush. The ways into the citadel from the landing ports were made to be held by a few men on their own,’ said Thracian. ‘Most means of entrance were blocked.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">’Then I could attempt landing in the outer bailey, outside the main gate. It’s the only place that isn’t a sheer drop. It’ll be tight, but no tighter than the Aegidan hangar was.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You would be doing it under fire. Hold position,’ said Felix. ‘I will not take any unnecessary risks. Thracian, do you have deeper level access protocols you can provide?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I gave all I had to your brother Techmarine,’ said Thracian. ‘But I will attempt shutdown myself, perhaps my voiceprint will help.’ Felix’s armour vox popped as Thracian shifted channel. ‘Emperor’s Watch command nexus confirm databridge.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">An angry screech of static filled the flight deck. The automated warning resumed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘You are entering restricted airspace. Remove yourselves or face destruction…’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No response,’ said Daelus. ‘I read increasing power output through weapons systems.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Chapter Master Mansirius Thracian communicates with you, venerable machine systems of my Chapter. Confirm databridge and prepare to commence security net shutdown on my command after exchange of cyphers.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A green flash emanated from the summit. A stripe of laser light sliced past the Overlord, clean of dispersion blur in the voided sky.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Troncus, you have taken us too far in!’ said Daelus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The co-pilot shook his head and adjusted their course.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘You are entering restricted airspace. Remove yourselves or face destruction by order of the Scythes of the Emperor. You are entering restricted airspace. Remove yourselves or face destruction by order of the Scythes of the Emperor.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It will not heed me,’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What are your orders, lord tetrarch?’ said Daelus. ‘Throne!’ he shouted before Felix could respond. Troncus jerked the stick of the ship so that it slewed dangerously to the side.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A ruby beam of light speared through the space where the ship had been.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Now that was a defence laser. I recommend withdrawal,’ said Daelus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do it.’ Felix stared out of the armourglass cockpit blister. The mountain loured at him as it receded.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My lords, a vox message from Archmagos Dominus Belisarius Cawl,’ one of the mortal crew informed them ‘He is requesting the tetrarch’s presence and advising ground approach.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There is a surprise,’ said Daelus sharply. ‘He is at the landing fields of Odessa Port. I could set down in the city instead.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Join him,’ said Felix after a moment’s consideration. ‘Order our transports to put down the armour there also. The sooner we get this over with, the better.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He didn’t know if he was referring to the mission or meeting again with his tormentor.</p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor031"></a>Odessa Port was in a worse state than the city. The tyranids had gone so far as to demolish many of its receptuculae and grind them up for their mineral content. Broad pits full of half-digested metal and rockcrete residue leached of calcium dotted the emptied ground. The landing fields themselves remained useable, and it was upon their broad plascrete expanse that Cawl’s craft squatted, huge and red.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It looks like the archmagos has already made himself at home,’ said Daelus, directing the Overlord to overfly the site.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hundreds of fat cables snaked away from the underbelly of Cawl’s ship. In crude, mechanical aping of the tyranid consumption process, excavators dug sheer pits around the ship and were depositing the rubble excavated from them into machines. The machines spun grinding teeth to macerate the stone, swallowing the material deep into their guts where alchemical processes ripped it apart. From other mechanisms, attached by piping to the grinders, huge funnels periodically geysered clouds of gas harvested from the rock. Eight large-scale field projectors&#160;– four bolted to the rockcrete, four hovering under contra-gravity high overhead&#160;– screened off a perfect cube of space around the landing craft with a shimmering field. A sole Mechanicus Knight in the colours of House Taranis stalked the perimeter of the camp, while all around the ship, tech-priests in void gear guided remote sensing machines out onto the landing fields beyond the energy cube.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There is an atmosphere around Cawl’s lander,’ said Thracian. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl is ambitious,’ said Felix. ‘He does nothing the simple way.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Shall I put down within the field?’ Daelus asked.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix nodded. ‘As close as you can to the lander. Let’s not give the archmagos dominus the opportunity of avoiding me again.’</p>
			<p class="No_Indent">Cawl was waiting for Felix when the ramps of the Overlord dropped down and the Space Marines trooped out.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The space was freezing cold, and the atmospheric mix poor. Carbon dioxide predominated, with a heavy oxygen content and few of the other gases present on Terran analogue worlds. Felix’s transhuman system went into action to compensate. The high carbon dioxide component made him sluggish, but he eschewed the full measure of his wargear’s environmental protections and left his helm locked to his belt. He was acutely aware that everything he was and all the equipment he carried was due to Cawl. Looking through eyes that, although altered by Cawl’s technologies, he had at least been born with was preferable to peering out through helmet lenses designed and manufactured by the magos while yet more of Cawl’s inventions scribed data onto his retinas.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl stood by the side of his lander, his followers bustling about him as if he were some immense vermiform queen and they his slave workers. The magos was more monstrous than Felix recalled, having enhanced himself further since their last meeting. But the smile half-hidden behind his face-piece, part mockery and all challenge, had not changed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix suppressed a shudder as he approached. Somewhere deep inside him a small boy cried out. Everyone, he reflected, is afraid of something.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Archmagos Dominus Belisarius Cawl, I am Tetrarch Decimus Andro­dinus Felix of the Realm of Ultramar, ruler of the Eastern Marches. I thank you for–’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl held up a single metal finger, silencing Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The magos clattered forwards. Breath whooshing from auxiliary breathing apparatus hidden under his robes turned to ice crystals on the air.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Primaris 10-079-983. I never forget a number,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My name is–’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Decimus Felix, yes, I recall, of Laphis. Primaris warrior, then captain, then equerry. Hero of the Imperium, now lord of a shattered county.’ The magos’ torso sunk lower, so that his face was level with Felix’s own. Between patches of bluish flesh, tiny gears and pistons whirred. ‘I recall perfectly our more recent interactions. But I regard our original meetings most fondly. Our conversations were pleasant, and alleviated the ennui of my millennia-long labour. Thank you for that. You were such a spirited boy. I am glad that you have done so well. I knew you would go far.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix frowned. ‘Thank you,’ he said reluctantly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Not at all!’ said Cawl, cheerfully ignoring Felix’s discomfort. ‘It is a reward all its own when one sees one’s creations succeed.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix’s annoyance increased. Cawl did not notice, but was peering past him at the Chosen of Vespator.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Now, who do we have here?’ he said, scanning each of them with wide-band auguries. ‘09-372-8872, 09-372-7643…’ he said, rattling off the numbers of Felix’s bodyguard.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My lord!’ Felix declaimed loudly, thinking now was his turn to interrupt. ‘May I introduce the Chosen of Vespator, my guardians and aides.’ He swept out his hand towards his Primaris Marines. ‘Veteran Sergeant Cominus, of the Sons of Orar, Techmarine Daelus of the Ultramarines, Techmarine Troncus of the Praetors of Ultramar, Veteran Brother Cadmus of the Scythes of the Emperor, Veteran Brother Tullio of the Novamarines, Veteran Brother Austen of the Doom Eagles, Veteran Brother Ixen of the Aquiloan Brotherhood, Veteran Brother Diamedes of the Silver Skulls, Apothecary Yansar of the Reborn, Epistolary Gathein of the Avenging Sons.’ He turned hard eyes upon the magos. ‘You will see that each of these warriors is a hero. Every one has distinguished himself in battle and upheld the highest precepts of the Codex Astartes in exemplary fashion. They are far more than numbers, Archmagos Dominus Cawl. They have <span class="Italic">names</span>.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl chuckled good-humouredly. ‘Quite right, quite right. Of course they have names! Everything has a name. So good to see you all. I am proud of you, every one.’ Cawl rubbed various hands together and looked back to Felix. ‘Guilliman is quite the politician, isn’t he? These warriors are drawn from across the Ultramarines’ successors, and not all of them from the ten warden Chapters.’ Cawl clicked his tongue. The noise came out sharp as gunfire through his voxmitter array.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘A deliberate choice, my lord,’ said Felix. ‘To foster cooperation among my lord Guilliman’s sons.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Naturally,’ said Cawl. He clattered forwards, passing along the line of Primaris Marines and peering at them. His attendant servo-skulls swooped and bobbed around them, bleeping and chiming excitedly. ‘Good service records. Excellent function. They turned out rather well, don’t you think?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘These are among the greatest warriors in–’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Again Cawl interrupted him. ‘I don’t mean just these men, though they are exemplars of the type. I mean the Primaris Marines. They came out rather well.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes, my lord.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl turned around like a serpent coiling. ‘Oh, Decimus,’ said Cawl admonishingly. ‘Let’s be civil. I realise that you bear me some ill will. The taking away of childhood. The sleep of methalon hyper-freeze, the pain of the procedures of apotheosis and, I admit,’ said Cawl, raising several limbs and his voice to forestall Felix’s objections, ‘that I was a very poor substitute father, although I did try my best. All of you are my children,’ he said to the others. ‘But come now, look at what we have achieved together, you and I.’ He punched his wizened organic left hand into the palm of his metallic right in time with his words and advanced on Felix. ‘The stabilisation of the Imperium. The return of the primarch. The creation of a whole new breed of Space Marine.’ He stopped at Felix’s side and looked away to the mountain. ‘And we have so much more to achieve here, today.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘If it is civility you expect, offer some in return. Tell me what exactly it is that you seek beneath Mount Pharos,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Perhaps Chapter Master Thracian can answer that,’ said Cawl brightly, pointing at Thracian, who was by now approaching.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My lord archmagos dominus,’ Thracian said. He got down on bended knee and bowed his head. ‘Forgive my interruption, tetrarch, but I must give my thanks. Without the archmagos’ genius, my Chapter would be dead, our legacy lost. There is nothing I can do that will ever repay you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl winked at Felix then peered down at his motivator unit. ‘Come, come,’ he said. ‘Get up, Chapter Master. If I were to be thanked for everything I’ve done it would take an embarrassing amount of time. Consider it my gift.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I…’ Thracian began, thrown off by Cawl’s flippancy.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That’s right, get up,’ said Cawl. ‘It is to you that I owe thanks. This world is your demesne. I appreciate your allowing me to operate here. You should never kneel upon it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes,’ said Thracian. He paused. ‘Your offer…’ he began disbelievingly. ‘It was genuine?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes, yes.’ Cawl opened up all three of his left arms to gesture at the landscape, his feet clattering on the rockcrete. ‘The healing of your world will be undertaken as soon as I have what I need. We wouldn’t wish to disturb the mountain’s spirit through clumsy efforts at restoration.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Wait,’ said Felix. ‘You mean you intend to restore Sotha?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I do,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That’s impossible,’ said Daelus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You disappoint me, fellow acolyte of the Machine-God. Sotha is the middle ursine! It will be simple.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix looked at Daelus. Daelus shrugged.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I repair tanks and make guns,’ he said. ‘I have no idea what he is talking about with his middle ursine.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are aware of Gul Du Lac’s Three Ursine Hypothesis, surely?’ Cawl addressed them all. ‘No? Someone? Really?’ he said in surprise at Felix’s blank look. ‘All right. Some education is required. Gul Du Lac was a scientist of ancient Earth,’ he said. ‘She was one of the thirteen Appollians who led mankind away from Terra tens of thousands of years ago, landing first on Luna. She was instrumental in determining the suitability of alien worlds for mankind’s habitation. Her greatest theorem posited that certain worlds occupy positions that enable life to flourish, the so-called Zonality Gul Du Lac. Position is the most important. This is familiar now, yes?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No, my lord archmagos,’ Felix said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Really? Then imagine if you will, as Gul Du Lac did all those centuries ago, three ursines.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Three ursines?’ said Daelus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Three ursines,’ repeated Cawl. ‘Each has gruel for his breakfast. The first ursine has gruel that is too hot, and goes hungry. The third ursine has gruel that is too cold, and rejects his repast. But the middle ursine!’ Cawl flourished an array of bionic limbs. ‘His gruel is just right. Gul Du Lac used this analogy to classify worlds. We see around us devastation, and assume all is lost. Indeed, it looks grim on the face of it. The tyranids take everything, life, gases, liquids, certain minerals, but all this is gone from the surface only.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They do not mine, that is certain,’ said Daelus. ‘They do not delve. An Imperial settlement would take millennia to exhaust a world like this, even now.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Exactly!’ exclaimed Cawl, as if Daelus was the star pupil in his class. ‘The tyranids are surface eaters, they strip a planet’s surface and move on. Sotha is an active world. As much water is locked up in the rocks of a world such as this as can be found in its oceans. Now, can anyone tell me where atmosphere comes from?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Silence.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Come come now!’ said Cawl. ‘How can you learn if you do not think? You, Cominus, show your warriors why you wear a sergeant’s marks and they do not.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Atmosphere is apportioned to a world during planetary formation,’ said Cominus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl made an equivocal noise. ‘To an extent. Atmosphere also comes from here.’ He stamped his foot on the ground. ‘It can be liberated from minerals as we are doing with the limestone bedrock of this area.’ He pointed at the machines belching out gas. ‘Alchemy gives an acceptable admixture of oxygen, although I lack sufficient nitrogen to make this air entirely healthy. Given a few hundred thousand years, Sotha’s vulcanism would cloak this world again with gases. Recall, if you will, the days of pre-terraformation Venus, whose own extreme volcanic activities gave it a crushing pressure and runaway heat inimical to all life.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Again Daelus shrugged at Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Speaking of life,’ Cawl went on, ‘this world looks dead, but it cannot be. Again, we must look beneath our feet. As I said, tyranids are surface feeders. In the stone of any living world is microbial life aplenty&#160;– although all higher forms are gone, and many of the bacteria down there could not survive up here on the surface, the uniqueness of Sotha’s genome is not entirely lost. So you see, not hopeless at all, even if we left things as they are&#160;– which I do not intend to, for what use is a world of rock, potential atmosphere and germs to the mighty Adeptus Astartes? None!’ he said, adding a flourish of mechanical arms to his speech. ‘If we add additional water and gases taken from the rest of the Sothan system, and reintroduce flora and fauna cloned from vault samples held in the Library of Ptolemy on Macragge, then I should think we could have a hydrological cycle within fifty years, a rudimentary ecosystem within a century, while something approaching full life could be restored within the course of three hundred and fifty years, give or take a century. No time at all!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘But it’s impossible,’ said Cominus. ‘Imperial policy is to abandon worlds devoured by the tyranids.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘And when did Imperial policy amount to anything?’ Cawl said dismissively. ‘Do you not listen? This world occupies the position of the middle ursine. The world is bare, yes?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I agree, archmagos, but with all due respect–’ said Daelus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘But the position of this world has not <span class="Italic">changed</span>,’ Cawl said, slapping the back of one metal hand into the palm of another. ‘The solar input remains the <span class="Italic">same</span>. Solar input is the key factor in allowing life to arise, or successful terraforming of a dead world. Everything else will follow. Don’t you worry, Commander Thracian, all will be well.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘If this was that simple then why has it not been done before?’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Felix, Felix!’ said Cawl. ‘Nobody said it was <span class="Italic">simple. </span>It is <span class="Italic">possible</span>. But just because things are hard does not mean that they should not be attempted. Ask your genefather. The primarch knows that if a man has a will to do something, then nothing shall stop him. I am Belisarius Cawl! If I say a thing can be done, then it can be done, though it take me ten thousand years&#160;– and with all due respect to you, oh Son of Orar, compared to continuing the Emperor’s work and unravelling the secrets of blackstone, returning a benignly positioned rock such as this back to life is child’s play.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl began to walk towards the edge of the atmospheric field to get a better view of the mountain. He moved surprisingly quickly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Does that mean you could return other worlds to life?’ Felix said, as he jogged to catch up.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Hmm? Here? Yes, yes, if that’s what you want. I am a little pressed for time, however. Although the technology I will share, if your tech-priests can comprehend it.’ His dismissiveness changed to humour as he smiled at Felix. ‘You should be able to grasp the science yourself. I tried to make you all as intelligent as I could.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What will you receive in exchange for this labour?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I’m not doing it for reward, Decimus,’ said Cawl. He halted right at the very edge of the field, close enough to extend various sensor limbs through the shimmering blue play of energy. A couple of his servo-skulls shot past him and out into the airless day. The ground shook as the Knight of Taranis continued its patrol. ‘I’m doing it because I can, and because it is the right thing to do. Whatever your feelings towards me, and I know that the primarch too is irritated with me, I am on your side. I want the Imperium to survive. I want it to <span class="Italic">flourish</span>.’ Cawl fixed his eyes and numerous other sensing devices on the mountain. ‘It is for that reason I have come here. In the dark beneath Mount Pharos is, quite possibly, information that will allow me to save us all.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He stared at the mountain, until his body became as still as the rock, and his mechadendrites moved on his back as the trees on Mount Pharos had once swayed in the wind.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We leave tomorrow. Prepare your men, Decimus.’ Cawl gave the tetrarch an earnest look. ‘This will be a difficult mission.’</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>