<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-20</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-20" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-24" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor116"></a>Chapter Twenty</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor117"></a>Tainted blood</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor118"></a> <br/> </span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor119"></a>The hybrid strained against its chain, forcing Keltru to lean back and brace himself as best he could on the slippery floors. As they went deeper, Imperial stonework faded away, and the ferrocrete petered out. Glossy green-black took its place completely. There were walkways here and there, and where a run of side tunnels had been coopted by the Chapter to lay their dead to rest stone and brass effigies stared out from tomb walls, but blackstone predominated. That part of the Pharos had not yet awoken. Green lights flashed deep in the walls, the beginnings of processes that raced round angular circuit loops, never quite catching each other. Perhaps the dead really did hold sway in the tunnels the last Scythes of the Emperor trod, but whatever ruled the mountain stirred, even in those sacred environs.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The hybrid strained and lunged, dragging them deeper into the mountain. The air was thickening. The scrabble clack of alien claws upon the stone echoed from silent apertures. There were many openings, of all sizes, and those that were not plugged with shrines or tomb doors glared blackly at the Space Marines as they passed by. The presence of air, though enabling sound, enabled silence too. There was a difference between the silence of vacuum and the silence of a tomb. The latter was alive, watchful, disturbing because it could be broken.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They came to a large cave that was unevenly fluid in shape and pierced with many holes, resembling a stone organ in the living body of the mountain. There were more lights in the walls there, languidly switching about in unknowable mineral currents. Otherwise it was dark, too dark even for the alien eyes of the hybrid to see.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The floor of the chamber was some way below the level of the tunnel. The Terminators went first, their power-armoured brothers pulling on cables to prevent them falling. When the heavier brethren were down, the rest followed, skidding down slick rock to the lower level. Doror lost his balance and banged into the back of the Terminator-clad Ren, almost sending them both down. Bokari slipped and clashed down the stone, sliding out of control into the bowl of the floor. He fell several dozen feet, his suit light flashing off rounded corners and black entrances.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Eventually he came to a stop.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Brother?’ Thracian asked.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am unharmed,’ Bokari said. ‘There is something here, on the floor.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Terminators trained their suit lights on him. Bokari got onto his hands and knees. Around him fragments of bone and chitin lay in pools of light. He picked up a partial skull and examined it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Genestealer,’ he said. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The hybrid jerked on its chain and hissed. Keltru yanked it back, tugging it off its feet.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Sliced clean through. Particle beamer.’ Bokari got to his feet. ‘They’ve been picked clean, partially absorbed. Look.’ He panned his stablight onto a skeleton half sunk into the floor. Strands of milky white trailed from it, as if the floor were acid, and the remains were dissolving into it. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The devourers devoured,’ said Ren.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘A little irony to ease our death,’ said Thracian. ‘Bokari, get out of there. Keltru, which way?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Keltru payed out a little chain. The hybrid moved its mutilated head around, casting for psychic spoor. It pulled hard towards the largest tunnel on the far side of the room. ‘That way.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Very well,’ said Thracian. ‘Move out.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Wait!’ shouted Doror. ‘The floor!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Bokari looked down. The glassy rock around his feet was shining with a brightening green glow.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Get out of there!’ Thracian yelled.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Bokari began to run. Behind him the skeletons stirred. Three xenos constructs phased up through the glass and into the air, half in one reality, half in another. Their angled plates picked up fragments of genestealer bodies that clung on for a moment before falling through and clattering off the floor. One bore long whips of banded metal that it lashed after Bokari, yanking him off his feet and dragging him through the pit of bones. Claws hummed with alien power, flashed down, and Bokari was no more.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Wraiths!’ yelled Brother Ren.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Pharos trembled.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Scythes of the Emperor opened fire, blasting at the wraiths from close range, but the creatures were fast, hard to hit as they spun about, lithe as dancers, their bodies moving like ribbons of cloth. When bolts found their target they passed through their semi-solid forms. Those that caught the constructs when they were fully manifested exploded on armour plating.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A beam of violently coloured light speared Brother Ren. His bones showed through his armour in glowing negative, black on white, then the beam focus imploded, casting him into some other pocket of space and time.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Bring them down!’ Thracian roared. His gun barked.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang! Bang! Bang!</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Pharos shook.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The lead wraith phased out to a phantasmal outline. Bokari’s body fell through its claws. It swam through the air towards Ulas, phasing back into reality at the last second, when its claws were already angled for a decapitation strike. Ulas was ready, deflecting them with his power fist. One claw exploded, flying away from the construct and crashing into the heaps of bones. Ulas’ storm bolter filled the machine’s underside with detonations, and it was thrown back, broken and smoking.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian’s world shifted.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Not now!’ he cried, and emptied his magazine into a wraith. All the bolts save one passed through its ghostly form. He ejected his magazine, and slammed in a fresh load, but already his hold on the present was slipping.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang! Bang! BANG!</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor120"></a>Thracian remembered.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He ran alone onto the bridge of the <span class="Italic">Heart of Cronus</span>. His armour was scored with claw marks. His hearts were broken.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He had failed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Mind-slaved thralls that came at him fell as scraps of flesh and mists of blood before his bolter, but he was too late, the rebellion was close to success.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There was fire everywhere. Bodies burned at their stations. The chorus of servitors ranked up the back of the command deck were all ablaze, each touched by promethium to become a human candle. Bereft of sensation and reason, they tried to perform their allotted tasks on broken instruments, while their organic parts cooked and augmetics melted. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">It was to be expected of servitors, but most of the bridge crew was as passive. They stood, mouths slack, unable to act as they burned. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They should have been screaming. They should have been fighting, but they did nothing. Nothing whatsoever.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The rot had spread right through the fleet. All of them were psy-locked.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Hadrios!’ Thracian roared. He ran through the flames. Alarms rang from panicking machines. Fire raced along combustible cable housings, gutting work stations. Drifting embers of insulation fell as fiery snow.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Hadrios!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A whoosh of promethium igniting drew the Chapter Master across the deck. He ran through walls of fire, vaulting the burning forms of silently screaming serfs. A torrent of liquid flame washed down into the main hololith pit.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Hadrios,’ said Thracian. He advanced on the traitor through sheets of flame and smoke, drawing short of where they did their work. The inferno blocked his view. When the fires died back a moment, the man he expected was not there.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Shipmistress Hannelore calmly ejected an empty promethium flask from her flamer, unclamped a replacement from her belt and screwed it into place.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian raised his gun and his sword.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Hannelore!’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You were expecting someone else?’ She looked towards a broken pile of blackened armour. ‘Poor Hadrios, misunderstood to the end.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian recovered his senses. ‘Put down your weapon.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No, my lord,’ she said. ‘You know I cannot do that.’ There was a smile in her voice under the dreamy, glassy-eyed look.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then I have no choice.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No, you really don’t.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hannelore turned towards him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Chapter Master’s finger tightened on the trigger, but he couldn’t pull it. Sweat sprang out on his brow. The trigger was immovable.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hannelore walked down the bridge’s central walkway, raised her flamer and sprayed out a burning cone of liquid. Everywhere it landed it kissed little fires into life. Gel screens burst. Glass shattered. Placid people burned. She stood before the Chapter Master, and pushed his gun aside. Inhuman strength hid in her slight limbs.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Why?’ Thracian gurgled.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hannelore laughed. ‘You know why. You know <span class="Italic">exactly</span> why. You’ve been complicit since the start. Can’t you see that?’ More promethium whooshed from the muzzle of the gun. The bridge was a large space, but the shipmistress had been efficient, and most of it was ablaze.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They’re coming. Your replacements. These new children of a new era. I did not want this, you understand. I don’t want to die. None of us do. But they’ll find out. I do not have time to put them off the scent. I am going to have to start again. It should be possible. It’s been done once. All the Family had to do was be patient.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Gunfire rattled outside. Thracian’s last men had fought a running battle with monsters surging up from the lower decks. Loyal crew who had served since Sotha fell had turned on them without reservation.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hannelore looked over Thracian’s shoulder. She did not seem concerned about defeat. An icy knot in Thracian’s gut told him she might win.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You cannot stop us all,’ Thracian said. He struggled to speak. The same weight that foiled his trigger finger crushed at his throat. Hannelore’s eyes burned with psychic power. ‘Your spawn are dying. We have won.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Firelight danced on Hannelore’s cheeks. ‘Not yet. How many battle brothers remain, Thracian? Four dozen, three? Hardly any at all. And there are more of the gifted ones waiting in the dark. I am not so foolish as to risk them all.’ She walked towards Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then this is your plan? Burn everything before the reinforcement fleet arrives? You’ll never be able to explain it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I can be very persuasive, as you have seen.’ Hannelore stopped in front of him. ‘You never suspected me. I pity you, Thracian. You probably think yourself a fool, believing me, never questioning who I was or what I was doing, all the while suspecting poor, loyal Hadrios. He was doing his job, as much as he was able. If it makes this any easier, you had no choice. None of us do. The will of the Four-Armed Emperor is so powerful, so pure, it cannot be resisted. I am so sorry you will not see his coming. I am sorry you will not be saved. You are a good man.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are a slave to those who would devour us! The genestealers are tyranids, Hannelore.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The hive fleet is a test,’ she said. ‘I passed it. The worthy will ascend, to fight at the Emperor’s side forever. I pity you. I shall remember you in my prayers.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">She levelled the flamer at the Chapter Master.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This is what I will tell them. There was an accident. A plasma leak. The bridge burned out, most of the brethren dead. So few of us left anyway. Our crews infected with xenos plague, a rebellion, regretfully, that was nearly successful. I find lies are so much more believable when they are scaffolded in truth. There will be no evidence to examine, not here where it counts. And no one to gainsay me, I, the last true servant of the Scythes of the Emperor. The Family will go back into the dark, and we shall bide our time, until the day of ascension is at hand.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The hissing pilot light came close to Thracian’s eyes. Gunfire was coming closer to the command deck.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You have lost. We have won out. Put down the flamer. Surrender. Accept judgement.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hannelore shook her head.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You will be saved. I will save you. All of you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Thracian.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Goodbye, Thracian.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Thracian.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Flames engulfed the Chapter Master, biting into him, charring heat resistant ceramite.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘Thracian! Thracian! Wake up!’</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">‘By the warden of the light, is he with us?’ Doror looked to the Apothecary.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I don’t know.’ Aratus consulted his narthecium screen. ‘I have never seen brainwaves like this. He’s not asleep, he’s not unconscious. He’s just not <span class="Italic">there</span>.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Chapter Master lay on the ground. His armour prevented anything like a natural posture. He looked more like a malfunctioning machine than a man. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Galerius and Ulas had the last wraith penned in by the wall. It phased out, passing through their bodies, but Keltru was waiting when it rematerialised, firing one handed as he struggled with the hybrid’s leash.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Get him up, by the Emperor,’ said Doror.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My lord!’ Aratus tried again. ‘Come back to us, the enemy are–’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian came around screaming. He lunged up from the floor, grappling Aratus about the chest before the Apothecary could move. Their armour rang from the stone as they wrestled.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My lord! Stop!’ Doror moved in to pull him back, but Thracian twisted, and shoved Doror so hard he lost his footing on the treacherous floor and fell.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian rained blows onto his brother. Aratus’ helm twisted with every strike. Ceramite clad fingers skidded over his faceplate, seeking to wrench it from the Apothecary’s face.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian felt the fire. He felt his skin burn, the sight cook out of his left eye.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Hannelore!’ he roared. ‘Hannelore!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He jammed his hands under the chin of Aratus’ helm, found the soft seal, and began to strangle.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My lord! Please! Thracian!’ Aratus struck inwards at the Chapter Master’s arms with his forearms, but could not break his grip.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You will not destroy our Chapter,’ Thracian grunted. ‘I will not let you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Ulas and Galerius chased the wraith around the room with a hail of bolts, but it ducked and weaved, and then dived in to attack. Keltru, Ulas and Galerius blasted at it as it came, hoping to catch it when it phased back into its solid form.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Doror scrambled up, armour whining, and launched himself at his lord, slamming into Thracian’s side and knocking him off balance and sending them both tumbling down the incline of the floor into the heaps of bones. Aratus broke free, coughing.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Brother Doror had the Chapter Master on the ground, but Thracian was strong, and bucked under Doror’s hold, his cries of rage echoing far along the Pharos’ network of tunnels over the barking of bolters. Aratus flung himself down onto Thracian’s body, and together he and Doror pinned him in place, their armour screeching on the blackstone. Bones rattled off them.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Get his helmet off!’ cried Aratus. He locked out Thracian’s arm, freeing up one hand. Together, he and Doror wrestled off Thracian’s helmet. For a moment he stared at them uncomprehendingly, his sighted eye wide in his scarred face.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘He doesn’t recognise us!’ Aratus fumbled at his own helm and cast it aside. It bounced along the curving tunnel floor and vanished into a side vent.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It’s me! Thracian, it is Aratus.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian gasped. Sweat ran off him in rivulets.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Calm yourself! Calm! Thracian, Thracian, look at me!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Chapter Master stared up at his battle brother. Recognition dawned.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I cannot stop them. I cannot stop the visions. I don’t know if it’s this damned machine or the father beast waiting for us.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Warm air sang mournfully through the tunnels from the depths of the mountain.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian reached up a hand. Aratus and Doror pulled him to his feet.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Neither is good.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The wraith was thrashing about on the ground. A lucky hit had broken its dimensional phase shifter, and Ulas had its tail trapped under his boot. Galerius went to its head, kicked away its stabbing scythe arms, and punched its head flat with a single blow of his power fist.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The last gunshots died away.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian looked to his men earnestly. ‘We have to finish this,’ he said. ‘I have to finish this. Help me find the beast that corrupted our world.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Far beneath their feet, distant machinery rumbled.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We need to find it now,’ Thracian said. ‘Before I lose my mind.’</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>