<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-11</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-11" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-15" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor059"></a>Chapter Eleven</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor060"></a>The Crooked Stair</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor061"></a> <br/> </span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor062"></a>Day returned mercilessly as a sword blade of light slicing across the land. By dawn the expedition was ready. They had taken no more rest during the night. Although the earth had not shaken again, they remained on heightened alert.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian stood side by side with Felix and Cawl. Behind them the remaining Scythes of the Emperor waited in a double line, the geneseed casket escorted between the four Terminators, and the body of Tyliphus carried by four other brothers upon a makeshift stretcher. Cominus headed eight of the Chosen of Vespator behind the Scythes of the Emperor. Diamedes and Austen were to remain with the tanks, whose machine-spirits had been elevated to maximum awareness. Qvo-87 and Alpha Primus brought up the rear.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They stood in silence, half-expecting the ground to shake and the mountain dreaming to come on them again, but no disturbance either of the earth or of their spirits was forthcoming. Felix had them wait before the battered main gates of the fortress-monastery until the sun rose over the peak of the mountain, and slanted its light down into the bailey. Light crept up and over their backs, then with a sudden rush, stabbed through the ruined main gates and into the inner courtyard.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Expedition, move out,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We go towards enlightenment,’ said Cawl. His eyes gleamed with anticipation behind the shimmer of his atmospheric field. ‘But best be careful just in case.’ The massive weapons on his lowest arms rotated into readiness and powered themselves to fire.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix thumbed on his power sword and cycled up his boltstorm gauntlet. The gun’s machine-spirit danced reticles over every feature before him with such dizzying eagerness he was forced to rebuke it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Scythes of the Emperor began to sing a lament of fallen heroes, and the procession filed through the broken gates, down the long tunnel through the gatehouse, and into the fortress-monastery’s middle defences.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><a id="_idTextAnchor063"></a>A few more empty suits of armour lay on the paving in the courtyard, broken open like the husks of crustaceans. Space was limited so high upon the mountain, so the courtyard was small, triangular and looked down upon by high, roofed walls whose inner faces were pierced with loopholes. The apex of the triangle was not quite opposite the gate tunnel. To the right of the triangle’s tip, a second, smaller gateway led through the wall towards the mountain summit. In the opposite wall was a wide, low vehicle door that led down to the Chapter armouries. The space was a killing zone, and slaughter had been done on both sides. No trace remained of the dead beyond the wargear, but evidence of the fight’s ferocity was visible in marks on the walls: huge claw gouges, missile impacts, lasburns; every sort of damage from man-portable armaments imaginable, along with the chemical wounds of bioweaponry.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian halted. ‘The gatehouse and then the galleries were taken quickly once we fell back,’ he said. ‘We fired on our own fortifications here, from this side to that.’ He traced a line across the gap between the opposite sides of the triangle with two fingers. One wall had more bioweapon damage, the other more from Imperial guns.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘How did they overrun this place so quickly?’ asked Felix. ‘Even with your guns down and your void shields failed, it is a formidable obstacle.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I have no good answer to that,’ said Thracian. ‘We were ready to stand here, then the gates failed, and we were forced to fall back. All was confusion.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The quickest way to take a fortress is from the inside,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Are you suggesting we were betrayed?’ said Thracian angrily. ‘You impugn our honour, tetrarch.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Have you considered it?’ asked Felix, refusing to let the matter drop. ‘Have you considered that you were in fact betrayed?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian’s eye lenses glinted in the hard sun.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes,’ he said. ‘I have.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian made it clear that line of conversation was over by setting off again. ‘Come,’ he said. ‘The major ways are sealed. There is but one way remaining to the tower. It is a hard climb. We shall ascend the Crooked Stair.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The party followed on behind him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They went through the smaller gate and headed upwards, climbing a huge stairway carved directly into the basalt face of the mountain and roofed over with a vaulting of patterned brick. Every inch of the stone was carved with statuary of awe-inspiring beauty. The stair took a circuitous path, switching back on itself unexpectedly. The width, too, was inconstant. There were stretches where it was wide enough for Space Marines to march ten abreast, then long runs far narrower. It varied in pitch from precipitous to shallow. The effect was neither aesthetically pleasing nor did it follow the optimal route, and did not seem to suit defensive purposes.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Where the black rock extrudes through the basalt, our predecessors were forced to go around,’ said the Scythes’ Forgemaster, Sebastion. ‘The black rock does not cut easily, it breaks when worked, and there were ­legends that it should not be disturbed if possible. It is because of the&#160;black rock that the way to the citadel bends about so. It is called the Crooked Stair for good reason.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">As if the mountain itself wished to provide proof of Sebastion’s words, they rounded a sharp corner and found a pile of rubble where masonry had cracked off, revealing the blackstone beneath. Their boots crunched on broken reliefs of past heroes. The blackstone glowed with inner life, swift motes of green darting away out of sight when observed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The mountain is shedding its skin,’ said Cominus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘All my life I thought the builders of the monastery beholden to child’s tales, and I thought of them with scorn,’ said Sebastion. ‘No longer.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Shortly after they came to a pile of armour lying on a small landing, empty of every trace of flesh and blood. Damage from explosives and weapons fire had melted the rock and scorched many of the armour pieces black, but as elsewhere there were no corpses.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The stair began its final stretch.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix walked to the end of the landing in disbelief. What confronted him was more of a wall than a way up. He looked up the brick tunnel, which bent itself perpendicular to accommodate the change in angle as the stairway became a ladder. He reached up, and rested his hand on the steps by his head.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The Angel’s Ladder,’ said Thracian. ‘We are nearly at the citadel.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Epistolary Gathein,’ Felix said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The blue-clad psyker came forwards, and surveyed the empty wargear. The others remained silent as he performed his witch’s work. A heaviness came over them, suddenly gone when Gathein ceased his scrying. He drew in a deep breath and stood back.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They fell alone,’ said Gathein. ‘They were trying to hold the invasion back from the citadel.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This is the main access?’ asked Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There are tunnels,’ Thracian said. ‘But none of those routes are direct, and all of them were collapsed before the attack. They are plugged by stone blocks of a thousand tonnes each. When Kraken came for us, this was the sole way remaining on the ground,’ said Thracian. ‘It is a ceremonial way. Most traffic came into the Emperor’s Watch by air. Our aspirants must tread the stair as part of their final initiation. There is no other way to the top.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix looked up again.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then this fortress should never have fallen,’ said Felix. He sheathed his sword, and began to climb.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The steps in the rock were barely wide enough to take the toes of the armoured Space Marines, and they slowed, even their might taxed by the difficulty of the climb. They did not tire, but they lacked nimbleness in their battleplate, while their reactor packs and wide chests made balance difficult, and they were forced to stow their weapons. Felix in particular struggled: his Gravis plate was almost too large and heavy to make the climb. The Scythes were prepared for the ascent, but their gene vault, Brother Tyliphus’ corpse and the Terminators needed winching up. Several of Thracian’s warriors went ahead and lowered cables for the purpose. Felix watched as the methanol vault crawled upwards. Its labouring suspensor unit nullified mass as best it could, but still it taxed the Scythes of the Emperor, who sang their laments through teeth gritted with the effort.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl clambered up with the efficiency of a spider, his multiple legs rippling easily up the steps, arms grasping for hand holds, while his weaponised lower limbs swept both upper and lower reaches of the shaft for threats. His giant axe he held far back from his body in one rigid arm, the most humanlike of all his supplemental limbs, but the awkward weight did not inconvenience him, and he was soon out of sight of Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Qvo-87 followed next, floating past the labouring Space Marines on a contra-grav engine with a small, metallic chuckle.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Angel’s Ladder went a quarter of a mile straight up. Even the Space Marines were sweating within their power armour by the time they reached the top. The stair was at its steepest there, and had become plain in construction, with the carvings restricted to inspirational mottos, but as Felix hauled himself up over the lip, he found himself in a hall of great grandeur.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Polished marble, only slightly damaged by the planet’s fall, led along a straight hallway to a pointed arch furnished with polished bronze doors that stood half-open. The way was lined by statues on podiums which rose over three hundred feet from dark trenches either side of the hall to stand level with the floor. The ceiling had been made of crystal, now all broken. Surprisingly, the statues were not all of Space Marines.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Several Scythes of the Emperor had already attained the top, and were securing their gene vault before rigging their cables to bring up their Terminator armoured brethren. Cawl stood at the far end of the hall with Qvo-87. Felix paused on his way to join him, looking up into the faces of the mortal humans and the Space Marines lining the walkway. Several were missing pieces. Not one was unmarked by battle damage.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian joined him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This is the Walk of the First Scythes. These are the first of our order and the men and women of ancient days who fought at our sides in the Heresy,’ said Thracian. ‘Since then we have had special care for the humans of Sotha. They were heroes to us all, human and transhuman alike.’ He stopped before a heroically posed human soldier. ‘This one, Meriq, he was my favourite when I was a boy. They say he was such a great warrior he could fight with a Space Marine on his own terms.’ He shook his head at the idea. ‘Who knows if any of the legends from those times are true. The same stories say this hall was once a promontory of rock, and Roboute Guilliman himself rewarded the survivors of the war with our mark.’ He tapped at the crossed scythes on his shoulder plate. ‘I like to think the tales are true, but who can tell?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘When you meet the primarch, Chapter Master, you can ask him yourself,’ said Felix. ‘Though I warn you to be straightforward and not too worshipful. It annoys him. But he can be coaxed to reveal the truth of ancient days. The stories he tells are often surprising.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are from those times, so I heard,’ said Thracian. ‘What do you know of the days of legend?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Nothing. I was a boy when I was taken,’ said Felix. ‘And what do boys know?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Decimus! Decimus!’ Cawl’s voice intruded, bringing unwelcome recollections of Felix’s apotheosis back to him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Archmagos,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We are ready to proceed within. Join me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix looked down the corridor. While he had been examining the statues, Cawl had gone to the bronze doors leading into the lower reaches of the Scythes of the Emperor’s citadel.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl had spoken with Felix privately, so Felix now spoke to Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The archmagos is up to something,’ he said, as Cawl and Qvo passed the gate. ‘Come with me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian checked his warriors’ progress. Forgemaster Sebastion was overseeing the winching of the Terminators up the Angel’s Ladder into the Walk of the First Scythes.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘How long?’ Felix heard Thracian ask his men. He was not privy to the reply. The Chapter Master then turned to Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It will take some time to bring the Terminators up the stair,’ the Chapter Master said. ‘Yet Cawl forces us to follow. I gave him full rein to do as he pleased here, but the Hall of the Founder is one of our most sacred sites. I will not let him loose alone in there. I wish he would have waited.’</p>
			<p class="No_Indent">Thracian and Felix passed through the bronze doors into a large chamber, the Chosen and a good portion of Thracian’s men following. The Hall of the Founder was also faced with marble and played host to more statues, these all Space Marines in heavily decorated battleplate. An iron rondel set into the centre of the floor bore the crossed scythes of the Chapter, and was surrounded in turn by mosaics of cut stone depicting the ten stylised equines who represented the Chapter’s companies. Two flights of stairs led off at the back of the room, one upwards and one downwards, both flights being more elegantly finished and less punishing to climb than the Crooked Stair.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Not enough daylight got in through the doors to light the room, and it was as dark as any natural cave. Nevertheless, it was apparent a terrible battle had taken place in the Hall of the Founder. It was badly damaged; much of the marble facing in the room was shattered, showing the black rock of the mountain beneath, and half the statues had been toppled. Blackstone shone behind the holes in the false ceiling. Over sixty suits of armour lay in pieces all over the ground, many atop webs of cracks in the paving that showed how hard they had fallen. The wargear was uniformly ruined, ripped open by immense claws, burned by chemical flames and pierced by spears of bone. Acid spatter dotted the wall facing and the paving, but&#160;– as it was everywhere upon Sotha&#160;– no trace of organic mat­erial remained. Each gobbet of flesh and splash of mucous had been gathered up by the harvester creatures of the hive fleet and taken away for reuse.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl and Qvo-87 performed mysterious work at the centre of the room. They stood still for a while, then their artificial enhancements would go into a brief burst of activity, then they would stand still again. There was a tension there.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The ground shook.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Did you feel that?’ Felix asked Thracian. ‘Another tremor.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is a pattern,’ said Thracian. ‘Regular.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Soft, brief pulses of energy pushed through the stone. Unlike the earlier earthquakes, they came unaccompanied by visions, and were of short, regular duration and power.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl,’ said Felix. ‘Stop what you are doing.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The archmagos ignored him. He performed further actions of esoteric technomancy, his hands moving through the air as if conducting an orchestra, while his servo-skulls swooped about his head in tight patterns.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The pattern of the tremors changed, becoming a repeating cycle of five brief vibrations followed by a sixth, stronger quake.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl!’ Felix shouted over the vox. ‘I know you can hear me. What are you doing?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A large slab of marble slammed down from the ceiling.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian looked up and pointed. ‘There!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Lights blinked on in the depths of the blackstone. It glowed with line-straight runs of pulsing dots that raced around one another in increasing density. The tremors picked up strength, until the mountain shuddered with each. Lesser beats joined the shaking, and it became a percussive beat.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The rest of the Chosen came running into the room with a number of Thracian’s veterans. All of them had their guns up and ready. Ixen leapt sideways as a statue leaning forwards on its plinth broke off at the ankles and toppled to the floor.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Tetrarch! What is happening?’ shouted Cominus. The vox blurred, smearing his message to broken gibberish. Each tremor spiked interference in their vox-comms.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl, that’s enough!’ Felix said. He marched forwards, only to be intercepted by Alpha Primus halfway across the hall’s floor, who blocked his way. Each step Felix made to bypass him he matched.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The archmagos must not be disturbed,’ said Alpha Primus. ‘Wait.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Out of my way!’ Felix said. ‘He’s going to bring the mountain down.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You will wait,’ said Alpha Primus. Witchfire shone around his head. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Bolt rifles and bolters were trained on the giant. Alpha Primus swept his dull green eye lenses over the other Space Marines like they were nothing.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Move!’ Cominus shouted. ‘Move or we open fire!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do not threaten me,’ said Alpha Primus. His hand settled on the hilt of his chainsword. Cold energies crawled across his head and shoulders.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl!’ shouted Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The tremors became a thrumming, then stabilised, so that the mountain vibrated constantly at a low, tooth-jarring frequency. A final panel of marble cracked and shifted to hang half off the wall.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I do apologise, Decimus, but this is an exciting development,’ Cawl shouted. ‘I intended only to attempt a preliminary linkage with the xenos machine, but its activity levels have enabled me to do far more than that.’ He gave a little bow. The light of his augmetic eyes dimmed as his vision turned inwards. ‘It is my great pleasure to present to you a little of the Pharos’ ability.’</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>