<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-24</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-24" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-28" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor139"></a>Chapter Twenty-Four</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor140"></a>The last child of Sotha</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic">Circa 10,000 years ago</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor141"></a>Thracian blinked, suddenly able to move. He lifted up his hands. His face was raw with fresh burns. It came as a surprise to him that he could not see from his left eye. He had the fleeting sense he should be elsewhere, in some other time. A thought quickly forgotten.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You wish to know how we did it?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hannelore sat blearily in the interrogation chair, her uniform ragged. Her arms were bound behind her by heavy fetters that encased her hands completely. There was not a scrap of flesh on her unmarked by the confessor’s goads. Burns, bruises, cuts, too many for her alien-tainted physiology to help. Her eyes were swollen shut, her nose broken. Squares of skin were missing from her shoulders and thighs, and yet she spoke through her broken teeth and hurts with nobility.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian felt the first stirrings of sympathy. He squashed them.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are tainted,’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am as human as you are, my lord,’ she said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are not human, not any more,’ said Thracian. The confessor’s hands flexed around his instruments. He was one of two Chaplains left alive after the rebellion. He did his duty enthusiastically. ‘You are tainted by alien influence. I should have seen it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hannelore chuckled. She shook her head. A line of bloody spittle ran from her split lips. ‘I am human. More human than you. Who resorts to torture? It is not I.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It should not be possible. There are forty-nine separate genetic and mental tests all higher servants must undergo. How did you cheat them?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Thracian, I cheated nothing,’ said Hannelore. ‘I serve the Emperor.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘A false Emperor. An alien perversion of our master’s image!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘He is the true Emperor, Thracian. He loves us all. He is coming to save us. I was trying to save you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Tell me how you did it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hannelore smiled sadly. ‘Do you really think it as easy as asking me? You must try harder than that.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian nodded to the confessor. The Chaplain strode forwards, pushed Hannelore’s head forwards and applied a pain spike to her neural port. Hannelore’s body locked rigid as her nervous system was turned against her. Her feet drummed on the floor. Her arms strained until they creaked. Her broken teeth ground under the pressure of her own jaw.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Enough,’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hannelore slumped forwards.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Tell me how you did it!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hannelore lifted her head weakly. ‘I did not do it. Do you think I could have done these things alone?’ She leaned forwards against her bonds. Her voice became a hiss. ‘It took centuries. The sky father came and planted his seed. We grew into a loyal tribe. First, the people of Sotha were shown the light, so that the truth might be spread among them. This took decades. Then, when the brothers and sisters of the sky father’s Family were high enough in the planet’s hierarchy, brothers of the Family were introduced into the fleet.’ Hannelore chuckled. ‘You held your human subjects in such high regard, you entrusted them with far too much. I was ignorant once, like you. They came to me when I was made an officer. They came from the depths of the ship, and gave me the kiss of enlightenment.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian looked to the confessor.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Mutational rate in her gene code suggests she was infected directly four years ago.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then how did she pass the later screenings?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They were carried out on board,’ said the confessor. ‘The tests were cheated. This strain of genestealer exhibits extreme talent for psychic subjugation. They have evolved to coexist with us.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘So you filled our world and ships with enslaved kin to the xenos monsters?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘How many times must I repeat myself?’ said Hannelore. ‘We are pure. We are the chosen of the Emperor. He will come and take us, and keep us at his side! Do you not see, we do this for you!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Again,’ Thracian said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">At the confessor’s command, pain coursed through Hannelore’s system. She screamed. Her altered body was failing under the strain.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian raised a hand. The confessor deactivated the pain device.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian crouched, and pulled back Hannelore’s head.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘How was it done?’ said Thracian quickly. The traitor was deteriorating. ‘How did you hide yourselves from us?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hannelore’s teeth chattered. Snot ran from her nose.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Decades more. All it took was one Family member in the right position. Only when the officer cadre of the fleet and Sotharan defence forces were in hand did we attempt to influence the Chapter. Our father is mighty, more powerful even than you. We are the chosen ones. We will lead you all to the Emperor’s side. Even you. It is your destiny. Free me, let me take up my burden again. Be saved, brother! Salvation is all we have tried to achieve.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No,’ said Thracian. ‘How many blasphemies against our creed were committed? How could we have been so blind?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Because the Emperor willed it,’ said Hannelore.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You hid in plain sight. I pieced enough together myself. I thought Hadrios was trying to corrupt us. He misled us, but not deliberately; it was because of your manipulation. It was you, the people we protected. You destroyed the genestocks. All those recruits we took after the fall of Sotha, all wasted. Your elders,’ he spat the word. ‘They enslaved Thorcyra’s mind. How many are you? How long has this been going on?’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Centuries,’ said Hannelore triumphantly. ‘The Family cannot be stopped. You know it. You saw it at the Miral Prime, didn’t you? Brothers who would not strike. Psykers who could see the glory of the true Emperor. They were enlightened. You felt it at the fall of the monastery, you felt the touch of the true Emperor yourself. We cannot be stopped!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Your psychic tricks will work no more.’ Thracian stood over his captive. ‘You have been stopped. You do not take into account the will of the Emperor of Mankind, the true Emperor. I am His appointed champion, no matter what influence your vile masters sought to impose on me. You are a xenos abomination, and you have failed. Save your pity for yourself.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are so close to salvation, and you do not understand.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is you who is deluded!’ Thracian shouted. ‘Your sky fathers are predators come to feast. They run alongside the swarms. They are tyranids! Can you not throw off their influence long enough to see?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Sotha was a test, to judge if we are worthy.’ She had said this many times, always with such utter, unshakeable conviction. Hannelore smiled sorrowfully. ‘You shall die with all the others who do not believe. But take heart, all will be saved. All it takes is one of them, and the gospel spreads again. The Four-Armed Emperor, the true lord of humanity, he loves you, and he is coming.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You will die now. I am sorry for you. But I do this gladly.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You could not shoot me before. You know in your heart what I say is true. One day, when you face one of them, you will see the glory.’ Hannelore smiled beatifically. ‘I am the last true child of Sotha, and the messiah of the Emperor.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am not going to kill you,’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He gestured at the confessor. A knife flashed, and speared up into Hannelore’s brain.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The traitor died with her convictions intact, and a smile on her face.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">That was more than Thracian could claim.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Past dissolved into present. Fresh wounds became old scars.</p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor142"></a>Now</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">The genestealer patriarch advanced on him, huge, bloated and unstoppable. Thracian raised his gun, and found again that he could not fire. The monster stopped in front of him. Blood dripped from every one of its claws. It panted lightly with the exertion of combat. If he didn’t know any better, he would have said it was smiling, but the beast was surely incapable of emotion. The upward curve of its mouth was the result of its abominable physiology. The look of triumph in its eyes was an illusion. It had to be. The xenos were inhuman. The hive mind shared nothing with mankind.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Mortis runes sang in his helm. He could not summon enough free will to deactivate them. Their reedy songs tormented him. Galerius, Keltru, Ulas, Aratus… All of them were dead.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The sky father paced around him, tread heavy and deliberate as that of the bull phantines that had inhabited the forests beyond the Pharos. It huffed hot air out, and sniffed at him. It held him in psychic thrall&#160;– why by the Emperor did it need to <span class="Italic">smell</span> him?</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The genestealer came back around to the front of Thracian, where he could see it again. It bent low to peer into his eyes. It extended the forefinger of its left hand, and gently ran it down the side of Thracian’s helm. The nail talon squealed on the ceramite. Its tongue poked out between black teeth. The end was hollow where the ovipositor lurked, waiting to slide out and inject the creature’s gene code into another victim and begin the process of subversion again.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am the last child of Sotha, and I will kill you,’ said Thracian. He could barely open his teeth to speak. His muscles clenched in his jaw. His limbs ached from being locked in position.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The patriarch’s smile appeared to grow wider.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I will kill you. I will kill you. I will kill you,’ he said. The patriarch looked at the gun, then it looked at Thracian. It stepped back and placed its bulbous head against the boltgun’s muzzle. Such a gentle movement for such a monster. Thracian felt the contact as a soft shiver passing up his arm. It twisted its head about on the gun, pushed hard against it. Thracian still could not move, and felt himself unbalanced. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Abruptly, the genestealer turned about and strode away. It sat back in its throne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This is where it all began,’ said Thracian. ‘I am ending it now. I am ending you now.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The genestealer steepled its fingers together, and folded its upper claw arms across its chest. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Inch by torturous inch, Thracian moved the gun away from the gene­stealer. It watched him, amused, as his gun came to point at one of the necron crystals penetrating the floor.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I cannot fire on you. But I can destroy you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The genestealer saw Thracian’s gambit and was out of its throne swift as lightning, but it was a fraction of a second too late. Its immense bulk slammed into him as Thracian finally forced his finger to contract, sending a salvo of bolts into the crystal. The first and second cracked it. The third blew it apart. The genestealer bore him down to the ground as he continued firing, spraying the full contents of his magazine out through the room, shattering ancient marble and alien crystal alike.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He tumbled over, seeing the scattered remains of his men before being pinned into place by a single, enormous hand. The bolter was wrenched from his grasp and hurled across the room. The genestealer raised its upper claw and punched down, cracking open his breastplate. The three killing talons speared into his chest cavity. He cried out with a pain too great to bear. Blood welled up from his mouth and flooded his helmet. The partriarch stared at him hatefully, cradling his hearts in the vast spread of its claws.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There was a rushing noise coming down the corridor, the buzz of grav motors, the rattle of wings, and an enraged hiss.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">In a final act of defiance, Thracian lifted his head up from the floor, though the effort cost him dearly in pain.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Ave Imperator,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A tide of silver scarab drones engulfed the patriarch, knocking it off Thracian’s chest onto the ground. As it fell, it tore out his lungs and his hearts, but he lived long enough to see its writhing form become smaller and smaller until it was gone, consumed by the drones as surely as it had consumed his Chapter’s world.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Having seen his task completed, Thracian allowed himself to rest.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Death claimed him, honour and all.</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>