<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-19</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-19" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-23" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor109"></a>Chapter Nineteen</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor110"></a>A refusable offer</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor111"></a> <br/> </span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><span class="Bold"><a id="_idTextAnchor112"></a>Insect, </span>said the voice of the mountain.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I bring most humble greetings,’ said Cawl. ‘I am so very pleased to make your acquaintance. I am Beli–’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Insignificant, but bold. You come to us now, out of your cage of metal and flesh. You show yourself, light to light. Why?</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Belisarius Cawl was alone in the dark, his body lit only by the light of his augmetics. This was not a physical space. His body was a machine projection. A form of imagination shared.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">&lt;Unauthorised memcore access.&gt;</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl enacted a dozen sub processes to guard his mind. The probing presence withdrew.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Interesting,</span> the voice said. <span class="Bold">Primitive, but well protected. Let us try another way.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A force gripped Cawl and pulled his limbs outwards, leaving him like an insect pinned to a board. Cawl screamed. This time, the being breached his outer data walls and slipped into the upper layers of his soul. The laws of time and space stretched and bent. Cawl had the impression of an immense data probe riffling through his past.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Not your original form. Not your original being.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Again Cawl screamed. The pain was a phantom, but felt all too real. Every one of his augmentations was carefully ripped away and pulled out for display. The Pharos sought to model him, and turn back his existence through time to see what he had been before. It was all illusory, but it still hurt.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Nerve impulse, organic, bioelectrical, overlaid mechanical and electronic enhancements, but evolved from… </span>the thing paused. <span class="Bold">You are one of </span><span class="Bold-Italic">their</span><span class="Bold"> things, ultimately. </span>Another pause. <span class="Bold">You do not know this. You are ignorant of your genesis. A debased thing of a debased age.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Oh, great one!’ Cawl panted. ‘Hearken to me. I bring offers of an alliance between–’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Nerve impulses detected in material form of subject. Purpose of impulse, production of vibrations in gas medium. Result, it talks, </span>said the voice. <span class="Bold">It will cease talking.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Pain flooded Cawl’s being, tormenting him down to the lowest sub-atomic particle and beyond.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He yelped. ‘No need for that!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Still it talks. Cease!</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The pain increased.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I have a proposal to bring to you!’ said Cawl. ‘Show yourself! Let me speak with you, face to face!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Face? </span>queried the being. <span class="Bold">Face. Frontal expressive area to fore of upper body, often attached to endoskeletal box housing the organ of material-immaterial interface, </span>it said with finality. <span class="Bold">Face. Face to face. A curious expression. Implication of personal contact. You have no ‘face’, only the facsimile of one, and in your corporeal state the face you have is not your own. </span>The voice was pleased with itself. <span class="Bold">We have no face. Light needs no face. Let us see what face was yours, once.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The most deeply rooted of Cawl’s implants were teased from their housings. Cawl shrieked as metal separated from bone. He blinked in surprise as flesh long ago purged crept across his features. By now, his immediate vicinity was crowded with floating components. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Time is nothing to us, </span>the voice pompously declaimed. <span class="Bold">You are a thing of time. </span>It paused. Cawl felt it scrabble at his consciousness. So far, the deeper parts of his being remained inviolate. This annoyed the being.<span class="Bold"> Insect, </span>it said petulantly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You wish to understand me,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">We wish to vivisect you,</span> said the thing. <span class="Bold">There is nothing worth understanding in you, but we will pull you apart all the same, to see how you work. We must understand this new age.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There’s no need for that, we are kindred spirits, you and I!’ Cawl gasped, somehow. Bits of his thoracic extension were drifting away in the dark, where they disassembled themselves into their constituent components and floated in exploded diagrammatical form. It was very neat, if rather disturbing.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">We are not like you, </span>said the voice. <span class="Bold">We are a god. You are nothing.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Immobile, wracked with pain, Cawl still laughed. The thing’s annoyance grew.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘God’s a flexible term, in my experience. There is one god, the Machine-God, and you are not He.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">It was the thing’s turn to laugh. Its voice broke into a dozen mocking voices, booming from unseen horizons and overwhelming Cawl’s mind. The thing redoubled its efforts to penetrate Cawl’s defences and mine his soul for information. It forced itself a little deeper. Cawl groaned.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">These are the gods of your time. God of Machines. Gods of Chaos. God of… men? Men. </span>It paused, evaluating the word. <span class="Bold">There is weakness in this era. You are a man. You are weak. Your species is weak, far removed from the original plan of our enemy. These are not gods you worship, this Machine-God, these entities in the warp, this Emperor. We will explain. The first is a lie. The second are emergent consciousnesses caused by etheric disturbance. The third is a weapon. </span>It paused at this. <span class="Bold">There is war. The… rift? A rift has opened. The purity of reality is polluted. The war continues. Our war. You fight it. But you are weak. You are echoes. Echoes of might. Blots on purity. Glory has left this galaxy.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Actually, I can be strong if needed,’ said Cawl. ‘If we talk, you and I, you shall see. I have much to offer! See how I continue my efforts to charm you while you torment me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Searing pain coursed through him. He howled, then smiled.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You’re not going to shut me up. Listen to me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The thing was silent.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Perhaps, </span>it said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I can help you.’</p>
			<!--CL Release--><p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Perhaps.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We have much to teach each other.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">That is definitely not so. You can never learn what we know, and you have nothing to teach us.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are wrong.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Instead, you will free us.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">It paused.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">You have heard that before. We see it in the patterns of your mind.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl said nothing.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">You have heard that before, from one of your so-called gods. </span>The voice insisted. Cawl got the sense of something settling back to regard him from a greater distance, the action of a being desiring to understand the whole of a complex mechanism by changing perspective. <span class="Bold">This is a strange era. We have much to learn. We shall adjust your temporal resonance again, so that you may show us more.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Wait!’ said Cawl, but by then he was back in the past.</p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic">Circa <a id="_idTextAnchor113"></a>10,000 years ago</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">Cawl and Friedisch spent an uncomfortable month locked in their quarters on the Altrix’s ship. The craft was fast, and the warp smooth, but Terra was a long way from Ryza. Time dragged. They became fractious and Cawl, especially, disgraced himself with his pettish behaviour. They were allowed to socialise at first, but eventually became sick of each other, so spent much of the voyage apart at opposite ends of their shared quarters, bickering every time they spoke.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">In a moment of unusual thoughtfulness, the Altrix allowed them onto the observation deck when the ship passed the holy orb of Mars. A guard came for them and led them up through the ship. They sniped and argued like rival dowagers until they came to the gallery windows, where the sight of the great evils done to Mars silenced them.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They gaped. Friedisch gripped Cawl’s arm.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They sailed near Mars, not far off the higher anchorages. The world was crowded by debris clouds of stupendous scale, their components ranging in size from substantial parts of battle cruisers to flecks of paint that glittered in the sun like morning frost, misting the view. But though thick, the clouds could not conceal all that had happened to Cawl and Friedisch’s world.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Giant black scars cut across the red deserts. Whole cities had been razed. New and awful craters gouged the surface where once temple forges and industrial complexes had lifted their spires in praise of the Machine-God.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Belisarius, it’s gone. My home, it’s gone.’ Friedisch raised a shaking hand and pointed to where a deep fissure marked the location of Mundus Planus fabricatory conurb.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">All over Mars cities had been wiped away. Impact patterns spread their dark splashes over the ground. The fabled Ring of Iron, which circled the equator, had suffered as much as the mother world. Sections were missing, the material broken off and floating among the wrecks huddling around the red world. Mars’ polluted skies twinkled with re-entry tracks and the flash of laser discharge shooting down the largest pieces of debris.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This is Mars,’ said the Altrix. She stood with her hands clasped behind her, back straight, like an officer delivering a report to her general. ‘This is your home. You will note the large amount of damage done to the world by the Adeptus Mechanicus reclamation force. I understand that fighting is still going on in the deeper hives. The traitors are tenacious.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘All the knowledge, all those people,’ said Friedisch quietly. He stifled a sob.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I assume you are making some kind of point here,’ said Cawl grimly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Altrix nodded once. ‘I am making a point. I want you to see how much has been lost. I want you to remember what you see here when the director makes his offer. Knowledge is precious. Almost as much wisdom as blood was spilled in the war. We must work together to preserve what remains.’ She looked at them and curled her lip. ‘No matter how distasteful that might be.’ She unclasped her hands. ‘I shall leave you here to observe the results of man’s folly, and think upon what I have said. My men will take you back to your quarters. We arrive at Terra in three days.’ She walked by them, pausing as she passed. ‘This will soon be over,’ she said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">It was the only kindly thing Cawl ever heard her say.</p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor114"></a>Terra greeted them with the cold indifference of a neglectful mother. The worn out birthplace of humanity had little affection for its trillions of children before Horus’ great betrayal. In the aftermath of war, it had none left at all. For Cawl and Friedisch this coldness was to be expected, and they returned it. Their loyalties lay with Mars.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Terra was in worse condition even than the Red Planet. Wounded, grey and black, all traces of the Emperor’s efforts at rejuvenation wiped clean, it cities were smouldering piles and its people, where they survived, were lost in shock. Its mighty court of orbital plates was missing. Old Earth was naked, dead, diminished; a corpse world crawling with vermin.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They rode their shuttle down in grim silence. Altrix Herminia caught Cawl’s eye and raised a questioning eyebrow at him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He turned away.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They arrived at the half-ruined Lion’s Gate spaceport to find a world in mourning, and not solely for the loss of the Emperor. There was not one person untouched by the war. Everyone, from legionary to peon, had lost someone. Black adorned everything.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Security was tight, but the Altrix had clearance of the highest sort. Her warriors were ushered through the crowds of troopers manning the checkpoints. No questions were asked regarding her guests.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They had to drive through what was left of the Imperial Palace. Most of the transit system was wrecked. Only the most important roads were clear. They wound a circuitous route through a broken wasteland of metal and rubble haunted by grey survivors. Legionaries patrolled the streets in incongruously bright armour. They were all laden with honours that told of heroic actions in the defence. Even such minor celebration of victory seemed obscene.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There were precious few of these transhumans. The Legions were shattered, their survivors gone in pursuit of the fleeing enemy.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Their transport was military, all-terrain, a truck held high over the ground on eight fat tyres. Nothing less than that could have traversed the ruins.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They passed long lines of emaciated people waiting for rations being distributed from a burned-out hab block. Though barely more than a shell, it was in far better shape than its neighbouring buildings, which were reduced to cones of rubble scores of yards high.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Through armoured windows Cawl peered at diseased faces. He knew enough of human physiology to see that most of the people would not last out the winter. ‘Such a waste,’ said Cawl. ‘So much death.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The wages of treachery are always collected by the undeserving,’ said the Altrix. ‘You see, now you understand what Director Sedayne understands&#160;– that humanity needs to be saved from its victory. Only knowledge can do that.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl looked at her from under his cowl. He was in a foul temper and didn’t care to hide it. ‘You know, you will not hear much disagreement from me on that count, so why the need for the men with the guns?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Mortal minds are fickle. Individual choice cannot be allowed to stand in the way of destiny.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Charming. What manner of education produced a woman like you?’ Cawl said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘A truthful one,’ she replied.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The transport turned a corner on to one of the palace’s gargantuan processional ways. Its great width was narrowed to a ravine by falls of debris from downed hives. In the distance, the jagged buttes of the broken palace walls bit at the horizon.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Night was coming. Days were short and cold. There was so much material in the atmosphere it would take a thousand years for the sun to shine cleanly again. Sol tracked across the grey heavens, a woeful smear as miserable in colour and movement as every other soul on Terra.</p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor115"></a>There were a few places where luxury hid. There were buildings intact, and some entire spires, the surprise survivals that exist in any war, and, as in any war, such places were monopolised by the rich.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Herminia took Cawl and Friedisch to a starscraper in Outer Gryphonia, not far from the remains of the Celantine Wall. The building stood amid a multi-level wasteland formed from the bones of its brothers and sisters. Though still erect, the scraper’s lower levels were a honeycomb of blasted-out walls and gaping, artificial caves. The effects of war continued all the way up its considerable height to the top, where wounds in its silvery skin caused by voidship lance fire looked like the claw marks of gargantuan beasts.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">But there was life within. The inside was full of servitors shoring up the structure. They laboured, each absorbed in their own limited tasks, but together they produced work of stunning complexity, and at speed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Terra will rise again,’ said Friedisch. ‘I hope the same is happening on Mars.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Both worlds survive,’ said Herminia blackly. ‘They will never be the same again.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They entered a lifter with Herminia’s guards at their back. It rose rapidly. Atmospheric controls were malfunctioning, and their ears popped several times before the lifter began its long deceleration.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They disembarked on a high floor which appeared whole but whose corridors played host to the antics of freezing Himalazian winds. Atmospheric cyclers groaned in their attempts to maintain a breathable pressure. Already high upon the mountains, the altitude the building added thinned the air to nothing, and both Cawl and Friedisch panted plumes of ice crystals.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Herminia took no consideration of their difficulties, and they were hustled down the corridors by her guards. Neither she nor they suffered from the rarefied atmosphere, and they arrived in perfect formation, helms and weapons gleaming amid the dereliction, while Cawl and Friedisch struggled to breathe.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They came to a grand door swathed with the limp plastek sheeting of an auxiliary airlock. The airlock inflated like a balloon, until it stood rigid, enabling the door to open. Cawl and Friedisch were shoved inside, where they took grateful gulps of warmed, thicker air. Once inside they got a good look at the room door. It was bronze, ten feet high. The etched decoration of civilians and Space Marines leading humanity to a better future seemed painfully quaint.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A suite of rooms welcomed them, the principal of which was huge and opulent. There was a window overlooking the battered city, but it had been darkened to near total opacity, shutting out Terra’s pain. Rich carpets ran to walls of pleasingly sinuous shape. Antiques furnished the rooms. Artefacts and pieces of art from Terra’s long past stood in downlit alcoves. It was designed perfectly, a calming space. But this echo of Imperium’s lost promise had not escaped the ruin entirely. A thin layer of fine dust lay on everything, despite the best efforts of the ventilation system to keep it out. At least in there the pressure was more bearable, and the tech-priests’ breathing settled.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There was a single man in the room. Two of Herminia’s soldiers stayed behind to stand sentry, the rest exited to an antechamber, leaving the sum of the occupants at six. It seemed too small a number to fill the room. The carpeted floor hid dangerous gulfs.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Belisarius Cawl, Friedisch Adum Silip Qvo, I present to you Director Ezekiel Sedayne, technologist and scientist of the Emperor’s inner research cadres, biotechnical division.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne took the delivery of his title with studied diffidence, and turned to a table covered in dull gold leaf, where stood a selection of decanters and several expensive looking glasses.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do you drink, Cawl? Qvo?’ he said. ‘Alcohol, I mean.’ He addressed the bottles rather than his guests.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am not as pedantic as some of my colleagues,’ said Cawl. ‘I don’t deny myself the pleasures of flesh either. They are given to us by the Machine-God to enjoy.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Your religion is so charming,’ said Sedayne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes, I drink,’ said Cawl frostily.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne smiled, again at the bottles and not at the men. ‘Then allow me to select you something.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He spent a moment doing so, then picked a tall, fluted vessel, and poured purple liquor from it into three glasses. He took them all up in one large hand, and presented one each to Friedisch and Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Plum brandy.’ Sedayne looked at them gravely, then smiled. He had grey, intense eyes and the thin skin of someone living on mortgaged time. ‘They have made this for thousands of years around the Mediterran desert. I am rather partial to it. I hope you enjoy it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl took the glass. Friedisch’s hand shook as he accepted his.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne was tall and thin. Cawl would have suspected off-world heritage, a life in low-g habitats, but Sedayne wore no supplementary braces on his limbs to help him move under Terra’s pull. Although he did lean for support on a glossy cane, that seemed more because of his age. He had long black hair, and features that had many of the ingredients of handsomeness but which did not come together to provide it. Clothes of simple cut but expensive make clad him in black and greys.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I shall try not to be trite, nor mysterious, but straightforward,’ said Sedayne. ‘I know you have training in the arts biologica, Cawl. I don’t know about you, adept…?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Acolytum Friedisch Adum Silip Qvo,’ said Friedisch, annoyed his name had already been forgotten.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Acolytum?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I was days away from securing my first ranking when the war came to Trisolian,’ said Friedisch. ‘You will find me competent in several fields, notably–’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Thank you,’ said Sedayne, silencing him with a raised hand. ‘As I was saying, it will be apparent to you that I am old, and that I have but a little time to live. I am sorry to interrupt you, acolytum, but time is short. Please, be seated.’ He gestured to a nest of over-padded chairs. ‘I will tell you what you must know, and make the offer the Altrix here has no doubt intimated I will.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They sat. Sedayne moved with grace, but stiffness was setting in.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Adarnian vitality?’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You know your rejuvenats.’ Sedayne nodded. ‘Stolen life, I regret to say.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Illegal,’ said Cawl. He sipped his drink. Sweet and heady with a scent from the past, in it were trapped long summers and gentle lands gone into dust.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then you know me a little already,’ said Sedayne. ‘I did not take it lightly, and I did not take it for myself.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No? You wished to give the Adarnians a sense of purpose?’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Droll,’ said Sedayne. His grey eyes hardened. ‘I heard that about you, that you undermine others by making light of what is important to them, while pompously declaiming your own worth.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl shrugged. ‘I strive for perfection in the eyes of the Machine-God. I have yet to attain it. I do better than most though.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne shook his head. ‘You see, Altrix, this is the poor standard of inquiring minds in this benighted age. Machine-God!’ he snorted. ‘But I am sure we agree on some things, Cawl. Tell me, what is the most valuable thing in the universe?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Knowledge,’ said Cawl and Friedisch simultaneously.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Exactly,’ said Sedyane. ‘It was for knowledge’s sake that I prolonged my life in so barbaric a way. Do you think I have no empathy for the sentient beings that died so that I could live? No. Similarly, it is for the sake of the same knowledge I had you brought here.’ He cradled his drink in long, veinous fingers. ‘I am one of the fortunate few who worked with the Emperor Himself. There are not many of us left now. Old age took many of us. The war many more. Soon there will be one less. I am dying.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl sipped his drink again. Friedisch peered at his suspiciously.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I know you must have an interest in the biological work of the Emperor. You were a student of Diacomes, yes?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl nodded.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘He was a colleague of mine, a long time ago.’ Sedayne attempted a winning smile. He had cosmetically altered teeth, very straight, and horribly, unnaturally white. They looked bizarre in his chem-smoothed face, as if he were a plastek recreation of a man. ‘He was gifted, if deluded like all your creed. That was before I worked on the creation of the Legiones Astartes. I was the director of the carapace project.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">False modesty wrapped his words, tight as apple skin.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do you know that the black carapace was an unusual part of the Astartes program?’ Sedayne said. ‘It is the final stage implant, and unlike some of the other organs, that can, if necessary, be grown internally from seed germs, the carapace must be grafted in substantial pieces. Once in place, it encourages the human body to adopt it as its own, and it spreads. It is an engineered, controlled cancer.’ He smiled at his recollections. ‘This is now a matter of fact, and the signature element of Terra’s greatest warriors. No other gen-altered warriors have it. You will know a legionary by his carapace. It nearly was not so. It looked for a long time that we would not perfect it. Try as we might, we could not get the body to grow the carapace. It is far from the materials of the human body, being mostly a plastek compound with mineralised elements of rare sort. Nevertheless, it is crucial to the functioning of the Adeptus Astartes. Without it, their neural plugs are hard to implant, and without the plugs they cannot control their armour. As glorious a creation as the Legiones Astartes are, they are creatures of two parts, the biological, and the mechanical. Not so very different from the qualities your Cult finds so appealing, the union of man and machine, yes?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Indeed,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne sat back, getting into his stride. He was a man who enjoyed regaling others with his achievements. ‘Much of the black carapace work was undertaken by servants of Amar Astarte, a name which is already ill-favoured, when not so very long ago it was spoken with respect. She was one of the greatest genotects of this era, perhaps any era. Her work outshone that of the gene-witches of the Selenar. You know of them?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Of course!’ said Cawl. ‘We are not entirely ignorant.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne was unoffended by Cawl’s waspishness. Instead he seemed to approve. ‘Good, good, you fight your corner. That is good,’ he said, stroking the side of his glass with his forefinger. ‘No one will remember her, in a few hundred years. The favour of the powerful means so much, and she no longer has it. I didn’t rate her myself. The work I received was substandard. It didn’t work, so I fixed it. I made the carapace possible. You could say that the success of the Emperor’s own Legions was only possible because of what I did.’ Sedayne sipped his wine with a triumphant expression. ‘Now, imagine what you could do if you shared that knowledge.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Is he joking?’ said Friedisch suddenly. He set his untouched glass aside on a low table. ‘He is joking, isn’t he?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘He certainly seems very pleased with himself, Friedisch, old friend,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne’s expression darkened. ‘Why shouldn’t I celebrate what I have done? I have achieved so much. What have you done, Cawl, but dodge your responsibilities? Whereas you,’ he curled his lip at Friedisch. ‘You are a red-robed, Martian nobody.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Well, this is getting off to a flying start,’ said Cawl. ‘I believe there was something you were going to offer me. If it is simply this tedious lecture, I think we’ll be going, eh, Friedisch?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Let’s,’ said Friedisch.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am offering my knowledge!’ said Sedayne loudly. His mood turned as quickly as badlands weather. ‘I am offering you everything that I am, and everything that I have learned. Your religion purports to worship knowledge. Here I am offering it, and you scoff at me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl smiled. ‘I’m sorry if we insult you. But there are a number of things that trouble me about this. If this is such a marvellous offer, why drag me and my friend here halfway across the galaxy at gunpoint? I have to say that your underling has been nothing but threatening from beginning to end. This leads me to believe that you think I might turn down your offer, so I have to wonder, why me? And why is it inevitably not going to be as attractive as you are attempting to make it sound?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Name me the methods of direct knowledge transfer,’ said Sedayne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Engrammatic reproduction,’ said Cawl. ‘Psychic rip, genophagy, noospheric upload. There are many, but they are flawed.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They all are,’ agreed Sedayne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Diacomes thought there was another way,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘He did.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The direct grafting of one consciousness, via machinic connection through the infospheric medium, from one mind to another.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You know he utilised xenos technologies for this,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I do,’ said Sedayne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Technologies that were proscribed.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They were and are,’ admitted Sedayne. ‘That didn’t seem to stop you working for him. In fact, if I am correct about you, I would hazard a guess that it’s why you went to him in the first place.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Friedisch gave Cawl a questioning look. Cawl ignored it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The technology is dangerous for both parties,’ said Cawl. ‘He never managed to do it, you know. When I left him he had been trying for hundreds of years.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne leaned forwards. ‘Does that trouble you?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What do you think!’ snapped Cawl. ‘You are obviously intent on using this technology on me, in which case I will effectively die. So thank you, but no thank you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I offer you all my experience, all my memories, my discoveries. It is a gift,’ said Sedayne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes, a gift with a guarantee of my mind being wiped, and a high probability of death or insanity for the new being created. The only thing certain about it is failure. Diacomes turned the brains of his test subjects into gruel, director,’ said Cawl. ‘I was there. I wanted no part of it then, and I certainly want no part of it now. Good day.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl stood.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Wait,’ said Sedayne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl tensed. Herminia was staring at him. She shook her head emphatically and drew her gun. The guards levelled theirs at Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Since you put it like that,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl turned back to see Sedayne also had a weapon in his hand. It was small, perfectly formed, built to an aesthetic standard of a higher age. It was one of the most beautiful and dangerous things Cawl had ever seen.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I thought people like you got others to do their dirty work for them,’ said Cawl. ‘You have your own gun. Remarkable.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Sit down,’ said Sedayne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl sat. Friedisch hadn’t moved.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Experience taught me it’s always best to be armed,’ said Sedayne. ‘Hear me out. I perfected Diacomes’ techniques. It will succeed. Minutes, that is what it will take, minutes to grant you my lifetime’s knowledge. You will be wondering why I chose you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I wasn’t,’ said Cawl. ‘I was on my way out of the door, but I assume I’m going to find out whether I want to or not.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You have memcore alterations recommended to you by Diacomes. You were one of only eleven apprentices that he took on.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then approach one of them.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I did. The first three were with him before he perfected the memcore alterations. Two of them are in any case dead. Two are unaccounted for. Two went insane. Three more died during the war, the last died when, well, Herminia killed her trying to bring her in. That leaves you. You have the memcore alterations. You are also knowledgeable yourself, and intelligent. Think what our intellects might achieve together.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is not together, is it, director? I know that one intended effect of these memcore alterations is an increased receptiveness to mental overwriting. It’s one of the reasons I left him. He was using us.’ Cawl sighed. ‘Diacomes was almost successful during my apprenticeship with him,’ said Cawl. ‘It is theoretically possible to blend minds, permanently, but Diacomes found that the donor mind always suppresses and ultimately supplants that of the host body. Always. It would have been the great failing of his work, had all of his test subjects not gone mad or died. I’d say those were bigger failings, on balance.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne smiled regretfully. ‘A pity.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You know what I say is true.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I do.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I won’t believe you if you tell me you overcame the problem.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I won’t, because I haven’t. You will have my knowledge, all of it. But you will also be me. We’ll make a fine pair, you and I. You won’t be lost. You will live on, in me, a tiny piece at least. A whole new lifetime of discovery awaits us, Belisarius Cawl. You may watch it through my new eyes. Your eyes.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I’m not going to do it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You will,’ said Sedayne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl laughed at Herminia and the guards, and at Sedayne, all of whom were pointing weapons at him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It will do you no good to shoot me. Then we both lose.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That is why I am not going to shoot you,’ said Sedayne. ‘The Altrix will shoot your friend instead.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">As soon as the words were out of his mouth, the bullet was out of her gun.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Friedisch fell to the floor. Fyceline drifted between the tech-priest and the scientist. The back of his chair was a bloody mess of stuffing and splintered wood. It was the only reason he was still alive.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Belisarius!’ said Friedisch. His hands paddled in the pool of blood filling the hollow in his gut. ‘I am shot!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl fell to his knees by his friend’s side. He gripped Friedisch’s hand in his own. It was slippery, hot.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘A small calibre bolt pistol,’ said Sedayne dispassionately. ‘Enough to kill. If we are quick, and complete the transfer now, I might be able to save him.’ He smiled his skull’s smile again. ‘Once I am you.’</p>
			<p class="No_Indent">Another age, another place, another grand intellect looked down on Cawl with contempt.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">It was a repeated theme in Cawl’s life.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Insect, </span>the mountain said. <span class="Bold">Useful. Find us. This is what you seek. Take it. Come to us. Be our slave. You will free us. We will bring you to us. We are here.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Knowledge speared Cawl hard. Information was agony when delivered so forcefully, but he felt its sweetness all the same.</p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic">Now</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">Cawl came round with a gasp. His body had not moved, and the sense of dislocation was so pronounced he swayed and almost fell. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I…’ He was hot, tired. Something troubled him, the way the ancients said that someone had walked over their grave. ‘I have the most peculiar sensation. I…’ He looked to his companions. ‘I remember. Friedisch. I remember how it happened.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl,’ Felix came to his side. ‘Magos, are you well?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl felt decidedly unwell. Curious alien subroutines were rushing through his neural infrastructure, judging him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am fine,’ he lied, simultaneously enacting a cortical purge, while his own defensive hunt phages sorted out the pain from useful data. They chased out the mountain’s inquiring spirits, latching onto what was needed and keeping it close. He felt immediately better.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do you have your map?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Um, no…’ said Cawl. ‘No I do not. Instead, well, something else has occurred.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The mountain rumbled. Far beneath them, something stirred.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl!’ Felix shouted as the tremor built in strength. ‘It is happening again.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No,’ said Alpha Primus. ‘This is something different.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The floor vanished into nothing, and they fell suddenly away into the dark.</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>