<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-17</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-17" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-21" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor096"></a>Chapter Seventeen</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor097"></a>The Gates of Death</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor098"></a> <br/> </span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor099"></a>Down the stairs from the Hall of the Founder were the catacombs of the Chapter. That section of the fortress-monastery alone occupied parts of the alien labyrinth, the rest avoiding the Pharos’ blackstone core and either burrowing through the basalt shell or built atop of it. It was dark down there, and eternally silent, the perfect home for the dead.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">At the foot of the stairs was a broad corridor that headed down at a steady angle. For part of the way the walls were ancient masonry, different in style to the rest of the fortress, hiding the black uncanny stone of the Pharos. Legend had it that the Sons of Dorn had built that part of the Scythes’ home. If they had, Thracian and the rest had no idea why.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">After a time the ancient masonry ceased, and stonework nearly as old but differently dressed took its place. The work was inferior, and in those parts tremors and the actions of tyranids had taken part of the walls down. Behind them the mountain’s alien rock gleamed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian and his men proceeded on high alert. They could have run to the tombs in minutes, but they went at a cautious pace, guns held at readiness. Every shadow was scanned and checked. Soft lightning played around power weapons. Their auspexes and other devices were useless. The mountain throbbed now with the activity of the xenos machines, and tremors coursed from depths to summit with predictable regularity.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hadrios had the keys to all of this. Thracian interrogated his memories, trying to place him in some context before the flight from the fortress-monastery, but he could not. Nobody, it seemed, could remember Hadrios before the fall. It wasn’t unusual in a Chapter of a thousand and more members, especially when elements of the order could be away on campaign for decades, but Hadrios insisted he had been present at the monastery and had escaped himself. Perhaps he had. It was impossible to say what was truth and what was a lie.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Like fools, they had accepted his story. They had accepted him, each assuming the others knew him, none of them ever checking. Not one of them had put the pieces together. When they turned their attention towards the matter of the infiltrators, their vision was obscured. They became pliant, stupid. Aratus had said repeatedly that they had had no choice, that they were victims of xenos conspiracy. This message formed a large part of Thracian’s reconditioning. Aratus said what Hadrios had done could never be undone. Thracian refused to believe they had no choice. They had been weak. There were no innocents when it came to failure.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The things he had discovered, after the full horror of the situation came to light, chilled Thracian to the core still.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He felt the nullifier nestling against the back of his neck. He felt the shame it represented. He felt more at having deceived the tetrarch.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He was impure.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Every shadow, every crack in the wall, every tunnel uncovered by the Pharos’ shifting, they approached as if it were an armoured portal with enemies behind. It was tedious. They were chafing to get on with the mission, but Thracian trusted only the tenets of the Codex Astartes and applied Guilliman’s wisdom to the letter. He did not trust his own judgement any longer.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The methalon casket and its contents must survive.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There was an empty stone bier outside the gates to the tombs. It was plain, fashioned from a single piece of rock without carvings, the only adornment a stone pillow whose edges, despite its enormous age, were still sharply defined. There were many legends attached to the bed. One said the first human settler had lain in state there upon his death. That was not widely believed. The bier had been made large enough for a Space Marine to lie upon. Another version of the legend said the bier had never been occupied. The same story said it was made for a traitor redeemed who gave his life for Roboute Guilliman, and whose body had not been recovered. Another story told that it was a symbolic resting place for the vision of Imperium destroyed by Horus in his betrayal. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Versions differed. Who or what the memorial had actually been meant for was lost to time. That it predated the Chapter was all that was known for sure.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian had cared about these tales, finding the distant history of his Chapter entrancing. He had written treatises on the matter. Now all he felt was embarrassment and shame when he thought of the unknown warrior, knowing that whoever he was, he would have condemned the Scythes of the Emperor for their failings.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Directly behind the bier was a blackstone tunnel. Some yards away, a huge archway of Sothan basalt was worked into the width. Giant bronze hinge spikes projected from the carved supports, but the arch had never possessed gates. Fallen warriors must be allowed to pass from life to death with no barrier, or so the Sotharan belief had it. After death a warrior should have no more gates to storm.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Above the arch, in ornate script, was worked the legend ‘Finis Officium’.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Duty’s End.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They stopped before the gate. A faint breeze blew from below. The tunnel was repressurising slowly, only this was not the work of the fortress-monastery’s life support systems, but the actions of the mountain.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Air,’ said Aratus. ‘At this rate, there will be a breathable atmosphere within the Pharos inside a day.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The Pharos will no longer be here by then,’ said Thracian. He turned to his men. The blackness of the tunnel and the tombs it held framed him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My brothers, we stand here on the threshold of death. Each one of us has sworn an oath to see the stain on our Chapter’s honour removed, so that those warriors who have replaced us may carry our legacy onwards into the future without shame or fear of censure.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He looked to them all: Keltru, who had fought on through so much agony; Apothecary Aratus, who had assumed responsibility for their spiritual as well as their physical welfare; Galerius, Ulas and Ren, who plodded implacably forwards around the cryo-vault in carefully salvaged Terminator plate with all the skill and honour of centuried veterans; Bokari, half-trained by Sebastion to replace him, and who would now never be initiated into the Machine-God’s mysteries; and Brother Doror, whose valiant attempts to replenish the Chapter’s numbers had been so treacherously undone.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We who were once a great brotherhood, are now a tiny band,’ Thracian said. ‘But in each of us exists a germ of the Emperor’s will&#160;– through His gifts, and His teachings, and the wisdom of His son. It is but a mote, a tiny flicker in the great darkness that threatens to consume the galaxy, and yet it is mighty, strong enough to overcome the hive mind. Strong enough to keep us true to who we are despite the invidious tactics of our enemies. The future of our Chapter is secure, that we must not concern ourselves with any longer. It will be a long and glorious future, but it is a future we shall have no part in, and nor should we. Once we pass through this portal, through which the mortal remains of our brethren have been conveyed for nigh on a hundred centuries, we too shall be no more. We too shall be lost. We stand here as the dead. We enter these vaults and we become the dead, for though our bolters shall kick in our fists and our weapons crackle with the Emperor’s wrath, we shall be dead. But in our death, we shall have our vengeance.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is time,’ he said. ‘Set aside the dead. Wake our cargo.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘H<a id="_idTextAnchor100"></a>ere and now, my lord?’ Aratus stood forwards.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then I challenge you as I must. Hear this&#160;– once the subject is awoken, it will be impossible to put it back into hibernation.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Here and now, Apothecary,’ said Thracian. ‘As abhorrent as it is, we must make use of it. Time grows short.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘As you wish, my lord,’ said Aratus. With all the solemnity the occasion demanded, he retrieved a small scythe hanging around his neck on an adamantium chain. It appeared to be a piece of jewellery, but hidden inside was a signum key.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘With this key, I reveal the shame of our Chapter for all to see,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He broke the head from the scythe, activating the key.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Our brotherhood is sundered by our shame,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Lights blinked all down the side of the gene vault. Super-chilled gas vented from the sides, dispersing rapidly into the sparse air.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The sides opened, spilling billowing white out into the near vacuum.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Inside should have been racks to carry armoured geneseed flasks, the most precious resource of any Space Marine Chapter. They had been removed, and a cramped methalon casket rigged in their place. Liquid close to absolute zero kept the occupant in a state of suspended animation. The suspension chamber in such devices was usually a rigid container of some sort. Lack of space had forced Aratus and Sebastion to make the unit from a resistant plastek sack. The material was opaque, but the thing inside was roughly humanoid, presenting the outline of a bulbous head and a body curled into a foetal position. Three arms wrapped around a hunched torso. Its legs were sharply defined against the pliable material.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Aratus went to a control panel bolted into the innards of the machine. The genevault had been carefully cut to take several cylinders of various fluids. Tubes led from the cylinders into the sack via tight seals. Everything was covered in a thick layer of frost.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Shall I commence the reanimation cycle, my lord?’ said Aratus. ‘This is the last chance we have to abandon this course of action.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do it,’ said Thracian. ‘This is the end of us. Our death approaches.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘As you command,’ said Aratus. ‘Initiating reanimation cycle.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Aratus keyed in a code on a grid of featureless green buttons. He depressed the final cypher in the code, and the machine set to work.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The temperature of the hibernating occupant was raised rapidly. Cryo­protectants in the fluids that replaced its blood prevented ice crystals forming and destroying its cellular walls. When the cryoprotectants were sufficiently fluid, they were pumped out, and warmed blood pumped in.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Aratus monitored the process. The three Terminators faced outwards, on watch. The rest of the brothers observed in silence. The sack and cylinders, being warmed by the machine, steamed with the sublimation of ices. Inside pressurised glassite, liquids bubbled. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Vitae replacement complete,’ said Aratus. ‘Beginning cardiovascular restart.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A small screen blinked on, displaying flat lines and readings all at zero. Lights flickered on the console. With a keystroke, Aratus sent a jolt of power into the sack’s occupant. It spasmed. Some of the lines bumped, then went flat.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Again,’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Once more Aratus sent a jolt into the being. Its limbs spasmed together. The lines spiked, settled back to flatness, then twitched into peaks and troughs: heartbeat, breathing, finally brain activity.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The head turned outwards. Heavy brows pressed against the plastek, then a handless arm, the stump cap pushing out.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Free it,’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Aratus took out his combat knife, spun it round in his hand so he was holding it hilt up, and sliced quickly down.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The occupant spilled out trailing wires and tubes. Some small fraction of it was human, that was evident in the eyes. Though yellow and deeply set, they had a human’s quick intelligence. The rest of it was entirely alien. Three arms, a swollen head of off-white hue, plates of chitin and a pronounced exoskeletal cage around a torso of ivory. Towards the extremities its colouration approached that of a Sotharan human, a warm olive, but only just. A vestigial tail of bare, human bone snapped back and forth at the bottom of its back. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Scythes of the Emperor had mutilated the creature. A muzzle covered its mouth, immovable, bolted through flesh to bone. A heavy collar sat on its neck. All three of its hands had been amputated, and the talons on its toes clipped to the quick. It stared at them with hatred that, in its purity and ferocity, was human too.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian had no pity for this creature. It was a tyrannic being, a hybrid fathered by vanguard organisms to spread unrest and bring down civilisations before the hive fleets arrived to feast. The fact that it was part human only made Thracian hate it more. It was the weakness of the Terran race incarnate. It was the symbol of the Chapter’s shame.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He stared into its eyes. Under its muzzle-mask, a fanged maw hissed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">It leapt at him, the stumps of its arms held out to strike.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Aratus tapped a box attached to his belt. The creature fell down mid-leap and landed hard on the floor, where it squirmed in agony. Its limbs pounded the glassy rock. It arched its back and squealed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Enough,’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Aratus tapped the box again. The creature curled up on itself.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Keltru stepped forwards and snapped a heavy chain to a ring welded to the back of its collar and dragged it to its feet.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian stared at the hybrid. Its eyes locked with his. Even with the null-field, he could feel its psychic influence, a calming aura that urged him to trust it. The soothing effect it had on him fired his anger. This was the most insidious trick of this particular brood, psychic subversion to cow those who would discover them, strong enough to dull a Space Marine’s wits. ‘Turn on its vox beads,’ Thracian said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Aratus did so.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Chapter Master crouched low, so he might stare into its eyes directly. It wrinkled its nose beneath its mask at its own reflection. It knew on some level what it was, Thracian was certain.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘When Hadrios first showed me you, days after the fall of Sotha, he said one day you would help me find the source of corruption that had undone our world and our Chapter. Everything else Hadrios said was a lie, but by the Emperor I shall have that one truth out of him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Abomination, redeem yourself,’ said Thracian. ‘Take us to your father.’</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>