<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-9</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-9" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-13" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor048"></a>Chapter Nine</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor049"></a>Beacon</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor050"></a> <br/> </span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">‘<a id="_idTextAnchor051"></a>This metal here connects the gun to the xenos device in the mountain,’ said Cawl. His bionic fingers tapped all along the length of the connection while other limbs tasted it with sensing apparatus. The metal made an organic-looking ridge, peaked and forked like a tree root, that wrapped around the gun’s podium and penetrated it in several places. ‘You see here how the rock of the Pharos extrudes through the local basalt? Close enough to the surface to put out these tendrils to the wall gun.’ A small plasma torch emerged from an aperture on Cawl’s side and ignited with a soft hiss. The magos sectioned part of the silver metal. It bled green light, then flowed back together. ‘Fascinating,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You said there were stories,’ Felix said to Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Chapter Master nodded. ‘Traditions. Myths. Talk of something under the mountain that our first Chapter Master, Oberdeii, was commanded to watch over. There are other stories, older still, of the mountain being alive. It was always assumed that they were fanciful, originating because of the strange properties of the rock. There were those who held it affected the human mind, and brought strange dreams. We thought nothing of it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There are many caves,’ said Felix. ‘Did your Chapter never investigate?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The main apertures were filled with ferrocrete before the Chapter was founded. Inside the peak, only the uppermost tunnels are clear. They are where we interred our dead. It was our solemn duty to ensure no cave was ever opened, and to keep the people of Sotha from the mountain. These duties were part of our Chapter cult, never questioned, obediently upheld. But it went no further than that. This galaxy is full of wonders. What notice should we have paid to a mountain of stoppered holes? It barred scans. What of it? I have seen many odder things during my service.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Have there been any visions noted in your records?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Nothing,’ said Thracian. ‘Not in nine thousand years.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Any tremors?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Nothing out of the ordinary. Sotha is tectonically active, we have earthquakes and occasional vulcanism, but nothing strange.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl was humming, peering closely at the metal link. Hair-fine probes drilled into it, and he fell silent a while.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix shook his head. He attempted readings from the mountain and the fortress. Static rattled his autosenses.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This radiation is not helping,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl straightened.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is not my doing. The mountain is waking. Your devices are blinded by the energies from within. It has linked to the wall guns. It is too weak to reactivate all of your weaponry. Indeed, much of it might well be incompatible with the xenos technology, but we can be sure that it will be attempting to bring the main orbital batteries online, as a first line of defence.’ Cawl smiled behind the skin of energy holding in his air supply. ‘I recommend we stop it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘How?’ said Thracian. ‘I am locked out. Can you get back into the Chapter noosphere? Perhaps we can deactivate the fortress weapons that way.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I will do what I can, but it might not be so simple.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You said first line of defence,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I did. The mountain is waking, but has not yet woken. However, all activity of reanimated xenos facilities increases exponentially, especially where threat is involved. It will replace your guns with superior weaponry as soon as it can synthesise them.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You speak of xenos,’ said Thracian. ‘You say their ancient toys are more powerful than the full arsenal of an Adeptus Astartes Chapter? Is that not heresy against your religion?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Oh yes,’ said Cawl cheerily. Multiple small limbs were performing sample gathering operations from the metal while he spoke to them, as if his own augmetics had lives and minds of their own. ‘I’ve never been one to play by the rules. The builders of this mountain would find your guns extremely primitive. It may be heretical, but that does not stop it from being true.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Can we stop it?’ said Felix. ‘Sotha is dead, and that is a terrible shame, but worse than that is a wakening xenos world on the edge of Lord Guilliman’s domain.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Possibly,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do you even want to stop it?’ said Felix. ‘It is my guess, archmagos, that you are here for more than a survey.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That is true,’ said Cawl. ‘I was not exaggerating when I said that this mountain could save us all, but in order for it to do so, I require it to wake up.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I cannot possibly allow–’ said Felix, only to be interrupted again.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do you have any inkling what lies under our feet, Decimus?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Not much,’ said Felix. ‘But I am familiar with the work of the necrons. This metal, the green energy source. The blackstone. This is necron technology. A tomb world here would be a disaster. We must destroy it before it attains full reanimation.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There have never been any sign of necrons here!’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The unlikeliest of places have turned out to be tomb worlds,’ said Felix. ‘This is my command, should this be the first signs of a tomb world awakening. We will return from the surface. We will destroy Mount Pharos.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Just a moment, Decimus,’ said Cawl. ‘Point the first, this is not a tomb world. Point the second, although this is a necron facility, ultimately it is the work of something older even than they,’ said Cawl. ‘Although the second point is me being merely pedantic, if I am completely honest.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix lost his temper. ‘You speak obtusely all the time, Cawl. You do it to demonstrate your superior intellect. In which case, I say bravo, we are all impressed, but I ask you to stop your games. Speak plainly. The fate of so much hangs on every passing minute.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Very well. Here is plain history, plainly delivered.’ Cawl crossed some of his arms. His probes retreated back within his armoured torso. ‘There was, long ago, a War in Heaven,’ he said. ‘So the aeldari call it, and though it happened long before mankind evolved, and before the aeldari dominated the stars, it remains prominent in their myths. From what I have pieced together from not-always-willing informants, the necrons won this war, but in doing so their power was broken. They went to sleep. As we are all painfully aware, they are now waking up. This mountain has stood here since their days of greatness. Consider its shape. Consider its coating of basalt. Over the aeons, it must have been submerged under water. It must have been part of the seabed, and covered by volcanic eruption. Throughout this world’s geological history, it has moved, and shifted with the crawl of tectonic plates, yet it has always been adapting, always working.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What is it?’ said Felix. ‘You should tell us that. Also plainly.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is a quantum empathic resonance beacon,’ said Cawl. ‘The necrons are masters of the physical realm. Their understanding of matter and the nature of the materium is so profound they can accomplish miracles that other races must rely upon the warp to achieve. I have come to believe that their ability to travel faster than light and communicate over interstellar distances must have been dependent on networks of beacons like Mount Pharos. Exactly how, I am not sure, but I suspect at the centre of every one is an entangled supermass of isolated particles perfectly in tune with others of their kind scattered across the galaxy. They are strange, these tangles, and powerful. Not only do they influence each other, allowing instant transmission of data, but they can also alter the sympathetic frequencies of other particles near to them, aligning them with other tangles, with targeted, predictable effects.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Explain more clearly,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This machine exploits the fundamental laws of physics to connect multiple parts of reality together, with no need of the warp. That is the simplest way I can express it,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I say again, we have seen nothing of this in nine thousand years,’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You told Felix, just now, of the legends surrounding this mountain,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I did.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You will admit that nine thousand years compared to sixty-five million years is nothing.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Relatively, yes,’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do you know the stories of “mountain dreaming”?’ asked Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Legends. Myths. Old wives’ tales,’ said Thracian, though less surely.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Apparently not. You see, we have all just experienced it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The visions,’ said Felix. ‘They come from the mountain.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They do. But they are not visions. They are direct interfaces with the past and, as you all no doubt experienced, with each other’s past. The realignment of one’s present physical state with its past state is exquisite genius at work, but this sharing of pasts astounds me.’ He laughed. ‘I, Belisarius Cawl, am astounded!’ He reached under his hood and pulled something from the back of his skull with a small click. Cawl displayed a small, black-green bead in his palm. ‘I fitted this before I arrived to allow me to communicate with the Pharos. Apparently you don’t need this to hear the mountain’s call. The machine is stronger than I thought. Perhaps it will help me interact more deeply with it.’ He replaced the bead. ‘Maybe not.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That’s dangerous,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is,’ said Cawl. ‘A lot of what I do is dangerous. I do have a reputation to uphold, Decimus, so forgive me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Has it been dormant all this time?’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Records in the Library of Ptolemy suggest much activity before an attack during the Great Heresy war by the Eighth Legion. Thereafter, its functionality was compromised.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Was it ever restored?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Far from it,’ said Cawl. ‘My brothers in those days gutted the mountain of all its machinery, so I thought.’ He paused. ‘It is conceivable I was among them.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are unsure,’ said Felix. ‘Archmagos, much of what you say is alarming. Not only the provenance of this beacon, but the cavalier way you approach it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am not entirely reckless, I promise. If I was here before, I have no recollection. My memory is… patchy, to use the Ultramarian vernacular.’ He paused again. ‘That may change, if the mountain has its way.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Explain further,’ demanded Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This series of fugue events is characterised by the random accessing of memory fragments, or more precisely, realignment of our present consciousnesses with fragments of our past. In my case, all of these moments were lost to me. You might find it surprising, tetrarch, but there are many gaps in my memory. I have been mind-wiped by my enemies at least once, probably twice, and although I keep comprehensive data archives as backup to my internal memcores, and am indeed obliged to memory dump every five centuries owing to the limitations of storage within my physical frame, data corruption has taken its inevitable toll. Some of my stores are lost, some are destroyed, some have been stolen. Despite my best efforts to preserve my experiences, and my knowledge, I have failed. My existence is an incomplete book, even to me, its author.’ He took a modest bow.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My time aboard your ship is the only part of my life I do not clearly recall,’ said Felix. ‘I am seeing it again.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No,’ said Cawl, ‘you are <span class="Italic">living </span>it again. The machine is responsible.’ </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘But why?’ said Thracian. ‘Why is it doing it?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It could be a form of attack, exposing us to these lost parts of our lives.’ Cawl shrugged, which for him was a complicated motion involving multiple limbs. ‘<span class="Italic">How</span> is more interesting to me. Some advanced form of field interaction, I suspect. As far as I am aware, the Pharos has no noosphere as my colleagues would understand it, but they don’t understand much. It is a machine and all machines can be accessed. The trick is knowing how.’ He tapped the back of his head where the bead was seated, then gestured at the fortress-monastery gates. ‘I know how to gain access. The knowledge was gained at cost, as much knowledge is, but the Pharos will find it is not the only one who can reach into the beings of others.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I do not like this,’ said Felix. He stared at the silver web binding the wall gun to the alien device. ‘I am unconvinced that we should be here.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Let me put my case. You must learn to understand how important this installation is. Although I surmise this beacon network to be crucial to the necrons’ mastery of space, the number of nodes must have been relatively small, because I have found only one other similar to this in all my life.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That you can remember,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Granted, although something that important, I make sure to record in multiple places,’ said Cawl. ‘The other one was destroyed utterly from the inside out. It was dead. This one is alive, and it is repairing itself. It may indeed have already repaired itself.’ He looked up to the mountain peak. ‘This is an opportunity of inestimable value.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘As miraculous as these beacons are, or were, the secrets of their technology is not my primary goal, though I stress any knowledge gathered would be most welcome. In each of these mountains must be a vast repository of wisdom. You are aware of blackstone, also known as noctolith.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This mountain is made of it,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Indeed it is.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then you want to quarry it?’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl laughed. ‘No no no, definitely not. I am not some backward data grubber from Metallica! I am the Prime Conduit of the Omnissiah!’ He said this ironically, leaving the others unsure whether Cawl took the title bestowed upon him seriously. ‘Noctolith is perhaps the greatest work of the necrons. During this war of theirs, the warp was used as a weapon by their enemies, the fathers of the aeldari. The necrons found a way to fight back against it.’ Cawl swayed forwards. ‘Since your father returned, Felix, the Adeptus Mechanicus has been waging its own war to gather and understand the substance, how to tune it to amplify the warp or shut it out altogether. Blackstone can save us. In this mountain I expect to find information as to exactly how, and detailed maps of the prior Necron Empire that will allow me to find more of it. Enough, perhaps, to stitch closed the Great Rift and banish Chaos from our galaxy forever. This is what I will achieve. This is my great work. A new network of pylons like those lost on Cadia but far greater. I intend nothing less than the salvation of mankind.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian and Felix looked at one another.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Tetrarch, do you intend to allow him to do this?’ said Thracian. ‘The use of alien technology is proscribed by the Adeptus Mechanicus.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘By some of its sects only,’ said Felix. ‘Do not forget that alien technology saved our primarch, and that it was alien technology that held the Cadian Gate closed for so long. It is your world. Allow Cawl access or not, but I will destroy this mountain once he is done.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Not until our geneseed is laid to rest,’ said Thracian. He leaned against the parapet and looked out over the bailey. His men were collecting the wargear of the fallen with great reverence. ‘If the archmagos can restore Sotha and redeem my Chapter’s honour, I will let him do what he likes. But if you deem it too dangerous, my lord whom the Lord Regent Guilliman appointed to safeguard the east, then I will defer to your judgement, and you may level this place entirely as soon as our rites are over. The choice must be yours. This is my world, but this is your domain.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix nodded. ‘I see the benefits. I see the risks.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What does your father’s famed dialectic suggest?’ asked Cawl pleasantly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix looked up at the man that had made him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That we go in with all due caution.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl nodded in satisfaction. ‘Most excellent and wise of you, young Decimus. Your part in this will be remembered for all time.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘First we must secure control of the Chapter’s defence matrix, or disable it if we cannot,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Agreed. Forgemaster Sebastion!’ Thracian voxed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Forgemaster came up from the courtyard to join them.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Explain your plans to the tetrarch,’ commanded Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘As you wish.’ Sebastion flipped open a panel on his gauntlet, and conjured up a small cartolith of the fortress.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I must reach the Defensor Strategium. It lies deep in the mountain, beneath the Emperor’s Watch. The only access point is from the tower. The strategium is the sole central control nexus, and is our best chance of shutting down the weapons,’ said Sebastion. ‘Otherwise, we will have to visit each silo individually, and destroy them. That will take time.’ The locations flashed on the map as he spoke.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Once we have the fortress back under our control and have swept the environs for xenos threat, Cawl may begin his work, agreed?’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl inclined his head in thanks. Thracian nodded.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I have a question for the archmagos,’ Sebastion said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Ask, fellow acolyte,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘If the device under Mount Pharos is xenos, how can you extract the information you need?’ Sebastion asked. ‘How can we be sure you will not be corrupted by its alien taint?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Quite simply, Forgemaster, I propose to ask it.’ Cawl smiled again. ‘Nicely.’ Cawl tapped the back of his head. ‘I have my ways, you have seen my means. I realise this looks like a threadbare plan, Decimus, but you must trust me. I know what I am doing.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do we have any choice but to trust you?’ asked Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Truthfully, no,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The shadows were drinking in the day and becoming darker with each ray of sun they sipped away.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Time passes,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Let us be circumspect,’ Cawl said. ‘I recommend we remain outside the main gates. If there are genestealers within the fortress as Lord Thracian thinks likely, we should wait until sunrise. That strain of xenos is known for being more active at night, and I for one would rather face one enemy than two. Lord Tetrarch?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix watched the last of the sun passing up the side of the Emperor’s Watch. Without atmospheric refraction, the sunset was harsh. A stark line between night and day sliced across the masonry, inky shadows on one side, fleeing light on the other.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We rest,’ said Felix. ‘We enter the fortress-monastery in the morning.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Space Marines set about their tasks. All of them would rest in the safety of their tanks. None would sleep fully, but rely on the catalepsian half-slumber to refresh them. First, perimeters needed establishing, sentries posting on the walls, and the vicinity checked for hidden organisms. By the time they were done the stars shone steady in the hard vacuum sky.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix ordered them to rest and prepare.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There were further tremors in the night.</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>