<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-15</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-15" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-19" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor086"></a>Chapter Fifteen</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor087"></a>In the service of mankind</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic">Circa <a id="_idTextAnchor088"></a>10,000 years ago</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">There was a problem. There always was a problem.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl lay back in his chair. Its mechanisms cradled him more effectively than his own dear mother had centuries ago. Plush upholstery soothed his bare skin where he brushed it. Firm springs supported him. The air purification unit purred soothingly. But it was situated directly over his desk, it was always set too cold, and that spoiled everything.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He couldn’t think in his office. He couldn’t think out on the experimental line. It was too noisy, or too cold, or annoying in any one of a hundred different ways. He needed a little time to puzzle out the latest problem, but no one would give it to him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A notification clarion played softly. Before he could respond the door opened, letting the soft noises of the experimental centre into his haven. Even that was too much to bear, and he groaned.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Not feeling it today, Director Sedayne?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A long, thin-fingered hand fell away from Cawl’s eyes. A headache pulsed behind them. Jespin Creuz smiled at him winningly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No. Do you have to gurn like that?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl sat forwards. A small, pre-Dark Age device sat on the glass of his desk. He picked it up and began to fiddle with it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am sorry my good humour offends you,’ Creuz said good-humouredly. He was holding an active data-slate against his chest. Cawl could only see the back of it, but the lights from the screen shone colours from Creuz’s white smock coat, and caught on the metal of the pens arrayed neatly in his pocket.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What do you want? Are those targets you have there?’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They are.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Creuz slid the slate across the desk.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl glanced at the screen and grunted.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are behind,’ said Creuz. ‘Significantly behind.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am old, that is what I am, Creuz. Three centuries weigh a man down. I need a rest.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There can be no rest.’ Creuz gave Cawl a look of mock sympathy. His eyes were too small for his big bald skull, and they were lost in his sockets, which were smudged around with purple and black. ‘I wouldn’t bring up questions of age with Him, if I were you. He’s older than all of us, so they say.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Well, He doesn’t look it, and He doesn’t look like He feels it,’ Cawl said. He put the ancient device down on the desktop, and gestured at it with an open hand. ‘This device was made by men with a far greater grasp of science than we have. Not one person I have met can decide exactly what it was created for. Yet if you look at it, it is simple. A spring loaded arm, no spring now, but that’s what it was. A proto-plastek disc to take something, perhaps a larger disc. This groove here,’ he ran his finger around it, ‘I think it took a protective material. Some kind of felt, maybe. And this.’ He picked it up and flipped it over. ‘This took a motor, I am sure. Perhaps this hole here took a lens of some kind.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘A data recording device?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl pointed at Creuz. ‘A lot of people say that. None of them can explain why they think so, or how it worked.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Creuz shrugged. ‘Maybe He knows.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘He probably does. He probably saw the damn thing when it was working.’ Cawl looked into the reflection in the glass tabletop. A face that was not his own looked back. It had a high forehead over a face that was tall overall, a downturned mouth, a long, thin nose that would have been aquiline if it didn’t change its mind at the tip and turn upwards. Long hair, obviously dyed black, lay flat over his technologist’s robes. It was the countenance of a vain man who was not blessed with the genes to justify vanity. ‘He won’t say though, will He? He keeps His secrets close. We wallow about in the darkness of ignorance, He knows so much, but will He share? No.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You sound disillusioned.’ </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I’m tired.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Creuz retrieved his slate and gave Cawl a stern look. ‘It doesn’t matter if you are tired. You have a task. You were chosen by Him. He thinks you can do it, He expects you to.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘And I will!’ snapped Cawl. ‘I need more time. There are problems with the protein sequencing. The coding provided by the genarchs of Cambon is incorrect. I have had to go through the whole spool and reset it multiple times. It is not I who is at fault.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then work quicker.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘How many test subjects do you want me to kill?’ said Cawl. ‘I have run through four batches of volunteers, and innumerable vat blanks. The carapace is stable until implantation. The same problem, every time, only the cause of death changes.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This time?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The last batch spread uncontrollably and hardened prematurely,’ said Cawl, waving his hands irritably.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Six months ago it was disintegrating.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Well, they still all die, Creuz.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Amar Astarte will come down here next herself, you know, it won’t be me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I’m sick of that name,’ growled Cawl. ‘Tell her I have to go back to the baseline coding again. There are more faults in there. I will find them, but I need more time!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Creuz bent lower. ‘Well that you don’t have, Director Sedayne,’ he said. ‘Work faster, or the Emperor will replace you. I’m warning you. I’ve seen it happen.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You mean <span class="Italic">she’ll</span> replace me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are serving mankind, not Him, and certainly not her,’ Creuz scolded him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then I will redouble my efforts, in the service of mankind,’ said Cawl sourly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘See that you do.’ He looked around. ‘Nice office. It would be a shame to lose it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Creuz bowed and departed with a polite ‘good day’.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl blew out a long, exasperated sigh. This man who called Himself the Emperor, He asked too much. He needed a rest. He wanted to go to the bridge. To watch the sun rise over old Miamar. To hear the sound of the wind and the…</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">BANG.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">BANG.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Belisarius Cawl.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">BANG.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Friedisch lay dying in his arms, blood spilling from his mouth as he tried to speak. ‘Belisarius, don’t do it. Please. Not for me. Save yourself.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">BANG.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Traitor Space Marines fired at him in a burning, subterranean field.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">BANG.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Metal in the wind.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Insignificant. </span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">BANG.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Come to me.</span></p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic">Now</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">Cawl opened his eyes.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He was in the power sink control node. Angled batteries were laid out in a circle around the platform. All hummed. Activity lights shone on them and on the machines that controlled them.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am Belisarius Cawl,’ he said. ‘I am!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Of course you are, archmagos dominus.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl blinked. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Are you all right, archmagos dominus?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes?’ said Cawl quizzically. ‘Yes,’ he affirmed. ‘Scythes of the Emperor fortress-monastery citadel, Emperor’s Watch. Sotha, post tyranid harvest.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That is the correct location,’ Qvo-87 said. His limited mind was unnerved by Cawl’s behaviour. He reached out with unsure hands to comfort, or perhaps ward off his madness. Nevertheless, he still recorded everything. Subsidiary arms worked quickly in the shadows of his robes, the stylus a blur on its data-slate.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There was a voice,’ said Cawl. ‘That was new.’ He blinked again. He moved around on his giant body. It seemed clumsy and unfamiliar.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Master?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The Pharos is attempting contact. Real contact. I think it wants to talk. I must try a full interface.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Our equipment will be here soon, master.’ Qvo-87 paused. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There’s not time for that. Matters are coming to a head.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Are you sure you are all right, my lord?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Never better, my dear Friedisch.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Qvo-87 smiled at him sympathetically. ‘I am not Friedisch, magos.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">BANG!</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The noise threw Cawl a moment, but only a moment by the measure of the Mechanicus. A sliver of a second. An iota of time. He was already formulating a dozen responses before the noise had died away, and had chosen the one he would employ the millisecond it ended.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Was that an explosion?’ Cawl said.</p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor089"></a>Yansar quickly reattached Tullio’s powerplant, then Tullio leaned weakly against the wall while Yansar wrenched and heaved at the chirurgeon cot until he flipped it over. Behind this makeshift barricade, the two of them took shelter. Yansar piled up all the ammunition they had and placed their stock of grenades within easy reach.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The door was almost gone. Solid metal became a lacy sculpture under the mandibles of the drones. They fringed the door all the way round, legs clamped to the wall, cones of green light emitting from their mouth parts dissolving matter. Although there were now plenty of ways in for the robots, they ignored the Space Marines and concentrated on dis­assembling the door, atom by atom.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Necron scarabs,’ said Tullio. ‘I fought their like in the War of Silence. You?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My Chapter was occupied with the Chikanti incursion. Did you battle their king?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Tullio chuckled dryly, wincing at the pain it caused him. ‘Not personally. I’m still alive. I don’t think we were even in the same sector.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘If this is a tomb complex, then these automata will be the least of our worries,’ said Yansar. Both of them spoke low, not wishing to draw the attention of the drones. ‘Why aren’t they attacking?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They haven’t registered us as a threat yet,’ said Tullio. ‘I’ve seen whole companies of Adeptus Astartes march through tomb complexes at the first stage of awakening and be ignored, as long as they’re careful. They’ll consume anything, but if you get out of the way while they’re busy, they won’t even notice. You can even kill them.’ Tullio adjusted his grip. ‘Then something changes, and that stops, and they attack.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘So, we wait here until they attack and overwhelm us, or we wait here until they eat their way over here and consume us.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Those are the likely outcomes,’ said Tullio. The scarabs withdrew, and they could see into the outer chamber. The walls were reduced to a skeleton of exposed support beams which were being assiduously disassembled as they watched. ‘This world has had poor fortune. Devoured by tyranids, with the bones for necrons to gnaw.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Mark the third line in the deck plating,’ said Yansar.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Marked,’ said Tullio.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They cross that, then we open fire. Grenades first into the outer chamber, you drive back the vanguard.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The last of the door collapsed into black dust. As one, the gauss beams shut off. Green eye lights blinked in rippled sequence. Yansar’s autosenses registered the pattering drum of alien sensor arrays tasting the room. One of the robots ventured forwards. Sensing barbels stroked at the floor. Hyperplastek wings stirred.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This is it,’ said Tullio. ‘Ready?’ He sighted down his gun, mentally marking a target for each of the bolts in his magazine.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yansar pulled a grenade out of its looped belt. ‘Ready.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Other scarabs peeled themselves from the mass around the door, trooping after the first in a precisely straight line for a couple of yards then splitting apart with geometric precision into a fan of silver. More and more of the drones joined the advancing group. They spread in hypnotic patterns.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The scarabs began to deconstruct the floor.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The first drone reached the third line. There were now several hundred scarabs in the room.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Now,’ said Yansar. He flicked out the pin from a frag grenade and tossed it through the door.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Tullio squeezed his trigger, blasting apart the first scarab into a rain of metal particles. He kept his gun in single shot mode, aiming carefully before firing. A second scarab exploded as Yansar’s grenade detonated. Dozens of damaged drones were blasted into the room, smashing medicae equipment into pieces.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hundreds of glowing eyes turned on them.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That got their attention,’ said Tullio.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">An angry buzz of wings rose, and swarms of scarabs flew into the room, some aflame from the explosion. Yansar tossed two more grenades one after the other into the mass. Both were swarmed. The first exploded, blowing out a sphere of fire and shattered robots. The second was deconstructed before it could detonate, its energies siphoned into the abdomens of the scarabs.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Space Marines were both shooting. Tullio switched fire mode, emptying the entire magazine in a couple of seconds. Metal ricocheted off their armour and the walls. Tullio hissed as his bare torso was stung by chips of flying shrapnel. Yansar tossed more grenades, holding on to them till the last moment before tossing them into the swarm to ensure they exploded. The magazine dropped from Tullio’s gun. He had another in place smoothly, never moving his gun from firing position, breaking his fusillade for the minimal amount of time.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The swarm drew closer, the whirring of wings an aggressive buzz. Killing green light flashed between glittering mandibles. A drone clamped itself to Yansar’s backpack, chewing through the arm supporting his medical light before he seized it and smashed it against the wall.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There are too many!’ he shouted.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There are.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Tullio moved his bolt rifle smoothly. Each bolt claimed at least one scarab; the explosion of the micro-warhead and shrapnel from the blast taking down those nearby they were so tightly packed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Down to my last magazine,’ said Tullio.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yansar picked up a grenade bandolier. He primed one.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘For the Emperor,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘For the Emperor,’ said Tullio.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yansar hurled the grenade belt as hard as he could. It punched a hole through the cloud of mechanical insects, and flew into the next room. A tremendous explosion followed that took out the weakened wall between the theatre and the outer chamber. Scarabs were destroyed in their hundreds.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Smoke filled the apothecarion. The wings fell silent.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That will not be enough,’ said Tullio.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Silver limbs twitched on the floor. The scarabs righted themselves.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Farewell, brother,’ said Tullio. He drew his combat knife.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A blast of fire roared into the outer chamber, engulfing the recovering scarabs, burning promethium frying their systems. A second blast whooshed in. Tullio and Yansar got up, and began stamping scarabs to pieces. Three Scythes of the Emperor emerged from the smoke and fire, the lead bearing a flamer.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am Brother Bokari,’ he said. ‘Thracian sent me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">An explosion shook the room. Weakened metal crashed down in a nearby chamber.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Come,’ Bokari said. ‘We must be quick.’</p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor090"></a>They were at the top of the tree, higher than they had ever been before.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We should be getting home now,’ said Felix. ‘It is near supper and mother will be upset if it goes cold again.’ There was something bothering him. A memory that slipped and twisted just out of sight. Maybe it was because they were out too late again.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Just a few more minutes,’ said Nonus. ‘I want to look. You can see the whole world from up here!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This isn’t the world. It’s a dome. There’s our hab-block.’ Felix pointed through a gap in the trees to the metal skin of a slender domicile building. There were dozens of them in a spiral pattern you could only see from the air.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Is that the whole Imperium?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No,’ he said, looking at his brother strangely. ‘That is just Pembria, on Laphis. The Imperium is lots of worlds.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘How many?’ asked Nonus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘A million, more or less,’ said Felix. ‘It is big. The biggest, best empire in history, and the Emperor is our master.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">‘And what is the primary constituent of its military strength?’</span> said Nonus in a harsh voice.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix looked at him sharply. The illusion flexed. He came close to remembering who he was.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Nonus blinked, his face all innocence. ‘I mean, the Space Marines! They are so strong. Are there lots and lots of them?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The question from his brother made Felix uneasy.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Not very many,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They are blue. I like blue.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix smiled. ‘They’re not all blue. There are lots of different Chapters, all different colours.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Really,’ said his brother. His manner had become strangely cold, his voice growled. <span class="Bold">‘What about the warriors with the ability to wield the powers of the warp. Are there many of them?’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix moved back from his brother. ‘Nonus, what are you talking about?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I want to be a Space Marine!’ said his brother, childish again.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Let’s go home,’ said Felix uneasily. Outside the dome, clouds were turning orange, scudding rapidly across hard blue skies, blown by steppe winds. Inside, shadows slunk together under the trees for their evening congregation.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘All right!’ shouted Nonus. He slid off the branch and clambered down the tree with the agility of a pterasquirrel.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Wait!’ said Felix. ‘Careful, you’ll hurt yourself.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I won’t!’ said Nonus. He came to rest on a branch a few feet above the ground. Felix joined him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I’ve got an idea!’ said Nonus. ‘Let’s jump down.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes,’ said Felix. He tensed to leap, but he couldn’t.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Why are you waiting? Coward!’ teased Nonus. ‘You won’t be an Ultramarine, not if you can’t jump off the branch. We’ve done it loads of times.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘All right! All right!’ said Felix. ‘I’ll do it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Let’s count to three.’ His brother slipped his hand into his. It was small, warm, and a little sticky. Felix squeezed it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I love you, Nonus. I am sorry,’ he said, but could no longer recall why.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I love you too, brother,’ said Nonus. ‘Are you ready?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They looked down at the drop.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘One…’ they began together.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘Felix.’ </span>The voice came from nowhere. Felix started.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Did you hear that?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Two…’ Nonus continued. His hand gripped Felix’s so hard it hurt. Felix looked down and saw Nonus’ hand was skinned with shining metal. Light too powerful to contain shone through it. His own hand seemed huge, clad in armour. He blinked, and the image faded.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘Tetrarch. Stop. Look at me. Tetrarch!’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Three!’ squealed Nonus in delight.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">As Nonus leapt, something pulled hard at Felix, preventing him from leaping. He wanted to jump more than anything, to show his brother he wasn’t scared, then go home for his meal and the warm, dull predictability of scholum tomorrow. Nonus dragged at him, threatening to pitch him forwards off the branch. His brother was eight, and slightly built, but for the half second before their hands slipped apart he felt as heavy as eternity. Then he was off balance, falling back. The forest flickered, became a cold sky full of stars.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The killing drop off the roof of the Emperor’s Watch yawned before him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Fall</span><span class="Italic">, </span>the harsh voice said. <span class="Bold">Fall!</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Tetrarch!’ Gathein had him, his right arm locked about Felix’s left. Felix’s battleplate was significantly heavier than Gathein’s. He was in danger of falling to his death and taking the Librarian with him. His suit’s muscle system and joints whined and growled, fighting to keep him upright.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Gathein was slipping. ‘Tetrarch, please!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix came fully to his senses. The two of them staggered back onto the roof of the emitter tower, armour clashing together.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They recovered quickly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘How did I get up here?’ Felix asked.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I don’t know. I went down into the tower. I lost a few moments, then you were gone. I found you up here.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The others,’ Felix said. He attempted contact with the groups of Space Marines scattered through the monastery. Static greeted him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">An explosion trembled the tower, so far deep as to be almost imperceptible, but the vibrational pattern was unmistakable.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Where is Belisarius Cawl?’ Felix said to Gathein.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The vox crackled. Thracian spoke.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘Tetrarch,’ </span>he said. <span class="Italic">‘We are under attack.’</span></p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>