<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-22</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-22" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-26" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor126"></a>Chapter Twenty-Two</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor127"></a>The Tomb of the Founder</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor128"></a> <br/> </span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor129"></a>The Scythes of the Emperor followed the ancient paths of the dead, their captive hybrid wrenching at its chain, Aratus’ machinery keeping it biddable enough for Keltru to handle. Down there in the depths, the Pharos sang strongly. Seemingly pointless tunnels revealed themselves as resonation chambers whose cries combined into a haunting chorus that rose and fell and dwindled to single notes but never faded completely, always returning, growing in strength to a shrieking crescendo. Machinery far beneath the surface throbbed and thundered. Hot winds blew. Particle streams smeared helm displays with interference snow. Their vox sets rattled with machine croaks.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">On they went. Time and space became as twisted as the tunnels they walked. Phantoms dogged them. Ulas fell into a catatonic slumber, and would not be woken for twenty minutes, whereafter he wept for an hour. Voices, few of them human, hallooed from far off chambers, and always the tremors built, coming more regularly, each one bringing visions and forgotten fears, so that in the end the Space Marines dismissed their conscious minds, and fell upon ingrained battle rites to see them through.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The tombs became more ornate the deeper they went, reminders of higher ages. Warriors carried weapons whose manufacture had been forgotten. Their armour changed, becoming unfamiliar in form. Though still the wargear of Adeptus Astartes, their garb was like no other suits held in the Chapter armoury before the Kraken came.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian had been down here only once. All captains made the pilgrimage to the tomb of the Founder upon their promotion. There they knelt in the cold and the dark the mountain held before it had awoken, and meditated on the life of their noble forebear for a night and a day. None of the others had gone this deep. They fell quiet, not only for fear of the machine’s influence, but from the knowledge they trod on sacred ground.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">It was inevitable that the originator of the Family who had corrupted the Chapter should seek to claim the Founder’s tomb. That was the way of the alien. They left no good thing untouched.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Pharos worked on their minds, showing them glimpses of the heroes they passed in life. A century or two of thankless service most of them had, then thousands of years rotting in the dark. That was the message of the xenos machine. Thracian disdained it, even as his feet grew heavier and his hearts thumped slowly. He put his feet one in front of the other.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘By the Emperor and by the Founder of my line. By the ten sacred horses of our Chapter. By the righteousness of mankind’s dominance, let me see this done,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Each step grew heavy. He almost faltered, and then he became aware of singing. Not the bizarre alien wails of the waking mountain, but the good, bass chanting of Space Marines. His men sang not of death, but of victory. Thracian joined his voice to theirs, and so buoyed, made his way to the last and first grave of the catacombs.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Without realising he had arrived, he stood in the antechamber of the Founder’s tomb. It was a large space, colonnaded, and adorned with stone friezes depicting heroic acts done long ago. The mountain’s stirring had cast many of the frieze panels down, and they were broken in pieces, the gaps they left showing blackstone crowded with racing lights. The mountain was not solely to blame. Several of the panels still standing had been raked by tripartite claws, the faces carved away in acts of wanton vandalism.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Above the entry to the tomb proper, a motto endured, one of the very few places in all the mountain where the blackstone had been cut successfully. Alive now with motes of alien devilry, the words were never­theless clear.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hic iacet Oberdeii. Dominus est Falcatis ab Imperatore.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Oberdeii, the first lord. The Founder,’ said Aratus. Emotion stole into his voice.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The hybrid suddenly leapt forwards, breaking the chain holding it to Keltru. It scuttled in through the open gates and vanished into the darkness.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian drew his long falx. ‘It is in there. The last moments of our order are here.’ He saluted each of his warriors in turn. They responded in kind.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I thank you for your service,’ he said, then, ‘Emperor be with you,’ and he strode into the tomb.</p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor130"></a>It was waiting inside for them.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Oberdeii’s tomb was small, thirty feet on each side. The Founder’s body was held in a niche, walled away and forgotten. He was memorialised in the form of a great statue, twice life size, which had sat within a great throne of marble. It was too large for the room. Thracian remembered Oberdeii’s face as brooding, sorrowful, touched by defiance. His left hand rested on the hilt of a falx stood at his side, the right was at his chin, one finger held up to his lips as if demanding silence. Crossed scythes were carved into the wall over the throne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian had wondered when he spent his vigil there if the warrior had been accurately captured, or if the stone was simply a more solid form of legend.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">That was all gone. Green crystals shining with captive energies thrust up through the floor and from the walls, pushing out the ashlar blocks that had turned the xenos chamber into a room, and revealing the fluid, black walls behind. Alien light played over the stern faces of dead Imperial heroes.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The statue of Oberdeii had been wrenched from its setting and thrown down. It was in pieces now, his likeness forever lost. To do such a thing would have required prodigious strength, but the creature that had usurped the Founder’s place had a surfeit.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian had never seen a genestealer so huge. It was three times the size of its lesser kin. Its armour had darkened with age to a deep red, scabbed with excrescences and ridged with whorled growth patterns, while the cream of its skin had faded to an almost luminescent white.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Its lower hands, folded in its lap almost daintily, were vast, big enough to grasp an armoured Space Marine around the chest. The three-clawed upper limbs were equally huge, the talons massive triangles of mineral-laced chitin, and although they seemed too large to be sharp, light glinted from wicked edges. Two forms of xenos evil supplanted Imperial sanctity. Necron technology burned with building power as the mountain awoke. Greater still was the psychic aura surrounding the genestealer patriarch.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">It was aware of them before they entered, staring with malevolent intelligence at the entrance, awaiting them, a wicked despot eager to hear the pleas of his trembling subjects. The hybrid squatted at its father’s feet, and hissed as Thracian approached.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are the doom of our Chapter,’ Thracian said, addressing the monster. He felt the thing’s mind pushing at his, demanding that he submit. Some deep part of Thracian yearned to obey, but the null-field helped him, and his will was strong. Defiant, he pushed aside the thing’s attempts to enslave him. ‘You sought to corrupt us,’ he said. He gritted his teeth. Sweat sprang up on his forehead. The patriarch stared at him, a hideous curiosity on its alien features. Its nostrils twitched. ‘You failed,’ Thracian said, his voice increasingly strangled. ‘I have become your doom instead, for I can never be ensnared. I am a servant of the Emperor!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">His last few warriors formed up behind him in a fan. They presented their weapons. Thracian levelled his boltgun at the patriarch’s head.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Now you will die.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">In his mind, he squeezed the trigger. Nothing happened. His finger refused to move.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You will die!’ he insisted, his voice a wheeze emitted from an unwilling throat.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yellow eyes full of malice older than the stars locked with his. The thing that observed Thracian was old, evil, committed only to the destruction of humanity. A terrible weapon forged from mankind’s own genetic code. Behind it was something terrifying, a vast intelligence huger than the cosmos, ancient beyond human comprehension, a force of nature to rival the violent birth of galaxies. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian hated it with all his being, and yet he could do nothing. Some part of him hearkened to the patriarch’s call. Its will locked onto his and squeezed, crushing his volition into nothing.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The genestealer watched him. It reached down with one of its upper claws and petted the hybrid absentmindedly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian’s power to move was restricted to his eyes. His field of vision was restricted by his helmet. He could see only Ulas, but all his men were looking to him. The patriarch’s attention was mostly on Thracian. The others might be able to act.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Kill it!’ Thracian said. ‘Kill it!’ But his words were little more than a breath in his own ears, and did not reach his men.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The patriarch’s claw caught on the cybernetics bonded to the hybrid. It looked at it as if seeing the mutilations for the first time. The hybrid shrank into itself submissively. The patriarch extended a claw and traced the outlines of the stump caps, the muzzle, the neural control centre. The hybrid shivered in pleasure at the attention.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The patriarch snarled, and tore off its head. The hybrid’s body collapsed, spraying blood as it fell.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The genestealer rose from the throne, majestic and vile.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Kill it!’ Thracian said, a little more loudly. He wet his lips. His hatred battled with his paralysis. ‘Kill it!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The patriarch approached them.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Kill it!’ Thracian said, louder now. ‘Kill it now!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Ulas was the first to break from the spell. His storm bolter roared at the xenos fiend, tearing off a chunk of its exoskeleton.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They all opened fire then, except for Thracian. He remained rooted to the spot, unable to move. Gunfire boomed behind him. His gaze was fixed forwards, but he could see enough to see Ulas die.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The patriarch moved with lightning speed, and more grace than a monster like that should have had. It tore into the Terminator, wrenched his head off, taking half a dozen direct hits as it did so with little ill effect. It used the toppling Terminator as a step to launch itself, arms outstretched, towards its next victim.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Thracian listened to his men die.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">And still he could not move.</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>