<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-21</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-21" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-25" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor121"></a>Chapter Twenty-One</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor122"></a>The Pit</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor123"></a> <br/> </span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor124"></a>They fell through a fractured landscape of black mirrors and dazzling flashes of green lightning. Felix could not see Alpha Primus or the magos, although he saw himself endlessly repeated. The reflected versions nearest him were subtly different, those far away extremely divergent. He tumbled for what seemed like hours, surrounded by multiplying variants of himself, one leaf among a million leaves. His body twisted, smeared about like paint applied to a board and pushed by fevered artistry to resemble something other than himself, yet in essence the same. There was no pain. There was no emotion or thought, only strange spectacles that were snatched away as soon as glimpsed, and consigned to oblivion.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Suddenly, he stopped.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He lifted his head with a sharp breath. He was lying face down on a floor of shining blackstone.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl!’ he said instinctively.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Giant machines thudded around him, persistent as heartbeats, just as vital, beating out the finite time of reality as surely as Felix’s own hearts measured his mortal life.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl!’ he said. His face was wet. Blood, he thought at first, but the soft burn of spilled Betcher’s venom told him he had drooled freely while he lay insensible.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl, respond to me. Where are you?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He turned his head. The cowling of his armour restricted his view to either side. He saw sloped machines cut with channels where energies raced. Helm displays were down. His retinal feed was off. He tried to rise, and had no help from his battleplate. All of its systems were dead. The weight of his armour and the slipperiness of the floor conspired against him, and he fell down before he attained his knees.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A hand grabbed him under the armpit.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I will help you,’ Alpha Primus said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Aided by Primus’ strength, Felix rose up. His reactor coughed, an unhealthy sound for such blessed technology, but its power flooded him and his displays reignited. Readings showed a breathable atmosphere.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Where are we?’ asked Felix. ‘Where is Cawl?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I do not know,’ said Primus. ‘Not for sure. This place resembles somewhere my master once described to me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then he has been here before.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus shrugged. He did not seem to care. He wasn’t wearing his helmet. His usual miserable expression had a touch of mystification to it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The itch of acid spittle on his chin suddenly irritated Felix. He wrestled his own helmet off, and took a breath of air charged by arcane energies. It smelled hot without being so. Chemical scents he could not identify made it pleasantly rich.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Machinery was all around them. Dozens of low, long, ingot-shaped devices covered over with angular patterns of light. Each was the size of a battle tank, and all were identical. Only a few tunnels opened up into the great cavern that housed the machines. A shelf ran along one wall. The wall next to that bore the traces of walkways and machinery of human make.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The Heart of the Pharos?’ said Felix. ‘Is this it?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus shook his head unsurely. ‘Cawl told me of the Heart of the Pharos a long time ago. I forget nothing. He told me it was empty.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘He said the same to me,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This place is not empty,’ said Primus. He went to collect Cawl’s axe from where it lay on the floor.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The buzz of contra-grav approached, and Felix raised his gauntlet ready to fire. An insectile construct drifted past. Multi-lensed eyes glowed, and weapons arms twitched, but it ignored them and floated by.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Maintenance canoptek construct,’ said Primus. ‘This part of the complex is not on a defence footing.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then they will not attack unless we attack,’ said Felix. He powered down his gauntlet. ‘We must find the magos.’</p>
			<p class="No_Indent">They walked between the engines of the ancients. Felix was no savant of the tech cults, but he recognised power. Whatever these things did, they radiated might. Their very existence spoke of undreamed of knowledge. According to Cawl, the original machines had been carved up and taken away by the priests of Mars, and yet here they were, remade by the floating drones that tended them.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They passed among the scarabs and the spyders drifting through the maze. Felix couldn’t help but see echoes of insects in summer gardens, contentedly drifting over fields of blooms. The Primaris Marines kept their weapons inactive and holstered, and were ignored, though Felix couldn’t count on that state of affairs lasting, and the command to reactivate them was ever at the forefront of his mind.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">After crossing the machine hall, they came to an opening in the wall that led through a tunnel of energy fields projected through solid rock. Primus stopped at the edge. On the far side was a reddish light, and the busy thrum of more mechanisms.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do we proceed?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There is not much choice,’ said Felix. ‘The vox is jammed. We must search for the archmagos. He is an irksome character, but he is of too much value to leave behind.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus frowned at Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am joking, Primus,’ said Felix. ‘I seek to lighten the mood. We are in grave danger.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Humour is no weapon against death,’ said Primus. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I emulate the primarch,’ said Felix. ‘He can be unexpectedly light. I agree it does not work.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus strode purposefully into the tunnel, and Felix followed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Through shimmering planes of coherent light they glimpsed a bottomless gulf. Passing through it quickly, they made it to the other side.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They entered another great hall. What they had taken for the sound of more of the great engines was in fact the buzz of a vast swarm of constructs which circled a hole in the ground. From the pit shone a dull red light, and there came a ferocious heat. The constructs orbited the pit in a helical spin, one group heading down, the others returning. Those that came up glowed cherry red, and dripped molten stone. They flew off up to the high ceiling, where thousands of holes led away into the mountain.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus and Felix approached cautiously, and yet still they were ignored. The noise of the scarab swarm grew, from a drowsy hum to a roar of grav engines and clatter of wings.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They are mining the planet’s mantle,’ said Felix. The upward glow of distant molten rock bathed his face. ‘That must be where they obtained the materials to repair the beacon.’ He slowed. ‘Can you hear voices?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus strained to listen through the thrum of robotic wings. ‘Yes,’ he said. ‘On the very edge of hearing. But they are illusory, the work of the Pharos.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Can you block them?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The Pharos is not psychic in nature. There is nothing of the spirit about this place,’ said Primus. ‘We are hearing echoes of states of being that cannot normally be seen.’ They skirted the tower of scarabs droning up from the pit, and were forced to shout over their noise. ‘This place is cut off from the empyrean entirely, far from the daemon’s notice and the Emperor’s light both. My powers will not work here.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then how does this place function?’ asked Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Exploitation of trans-dimensional interstices,’ said Primus. He looked down at Felix. ‘That is what Cawl told me. I know no more than that. Necron tech archana is beyond me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am not sure this is necron,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Beyond the pit was a high wall, covered in alien script and fashioned to appear like the facade of a great temple. Sixteen niches held sixteen statues in two rows of eight, each statue humanoid but five times the height of a man. Those in the lower rows showed beings of knowing countenance. The craftsmanship was perfect, the materials smoothed to the molecular level, the artistry of the sculpture beyond sublime. The figures were rendered in different materials, the qualities of each reflecting the personality depicted in the pose and expression of the characters. One promised knowledge, another friendship, a third power, and so on it went. Above them the same beings were shown, but all in flawless silver, and bound by broad-linked chains. In the upper tier the faces showed torment. Necron glyphs circled both sets of niches, flowing on to join lines of millions of characters that ran in bands across the wall, and shone with the ubiquitous corpse glow of the aliens’ technology.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">At the foot of the wall, in the very centre, was a triangular gateway of shining bronze. A soulless face adorned the apex. An energy field covered the aperture.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus stopped. ‘What are these? They look almost human.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I have seen sculptures like this before,’ said Felix. ‘They are gods, worshipped by the xenos dynasties.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I did not know the necrons worshipped anything,’ said Primus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They do not any more,’ said Felix. ‘Come, there is only one way to go, through this portal.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It may be dangerous,’ said Primus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then this will be a short trip.’</p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor125"></a>They emerged into some other place far from the Pharos, far perhaps from the material realm. A plain of blackstone stretched away into infinity. A killing cold bit into Felix’s face, and he replaced his helmet before he continued. Primus followed suit. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There is no psychic dampener in here,’ Primus said. His voice was loud from his voxmitter. The darkness stirred. He fell quiet until the feeling receded, then continued at lower volume. ‘Unlike the last chamber, this place is flooded with the essence of the warp. It is concentrated around that.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He pointed up.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There was little in that place; it was as empty as death, save eight huge sarcophagi hanging without support a hundred feet from the floor. Seven were dark. But the fourth in from the left shone with baleful power, and it was this that Primus indicated and this that allowed them to see. It lit the other sarcophagi with hard planes of light and pockets of utter black shadow, showing up stylised representations of the eight beings depicted on the other side of the gate. Here they stared ahead proudly, arms crossed over their chests, their hands clutching badges of their authority. If they were tools, weapons or only symbols, Felix could not say.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The light was multi-spectral, a warm orange, like that of a star, but it was an ill-omened star if so. It bathed the Primaris Marines and made Felix feel unclean. Lines of glimmering blue intersected it from above and below, beamed from no readily identifiable source. There were eight threads of light.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Tombs of the gods,’ said Primus. ‘Wrapped in chains of empyrical energy. This blackstone is tuned for psy-amplification.’ Primus looked around the endless dark. The sarcophagus and its uncanny chains cast a patch of light of conflicting blue and orange. Though bright, the combined glow stretched only a short way before being swallowed up by the nothingness.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl is here,’ said Primus. He peered into the darkness.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Can you be sure?’ asked Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I sense him,’ said Primus. ‘Knowing where he is is part of my function. In here, without the psy-damping of the mountain, my witch talents work. He is here, with us. But where?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">As if in answer to Primus’ question, a patch of glossy black floor was illuminated from beneath. Within the ring was Belisarius Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Master,’ Primus said, and started forwards.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix grabbed his arm. ‘Wait.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘He is unconscious. I must go to him,’ said Primus. He sounded almost panicked, enough that Felix wondered how much of a hold the arch­magos had on him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is likely a trap. If it is not, he seems safe enough for now.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl’s long carriage was inert, his torso held upright by the augmetics that attached him to his lower assembly. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Space Marines’ footsteps boomed with unnatural volume as they approached the magos, but the sound faded fast, and the darkness seemed to press in closer.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus stopped at the edge of the pool of light and walked around it, not letting it touch him. ‘He is in communion,’ said Primus. ‘Data is being exchanged.’ He looked at Felix from the other side of the illuminated area. ‘My armour systems are keyed in to my master’s favoured data frequencies,’ he explained.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What is he speaking with?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Speaking? It is not speech. He communes in the machine world with that.’ Primus looked again to the lit sarcophagus. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That does not look like the containment unit for an entangled supermass of isolated particles,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Whatever is in there is the true heart of the mountain,’ said Primus. ‘That is what my master came here to find.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix checked his chronometer.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then he must hurry. He has four hours until this mountain is destroyed,’ he said. ‘We shall wait three, no more.’</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>