<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-23</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-23" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-27" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor131"></a>Chapter Twenty-Three</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor132"></a>I am you, you are me</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic">Circa <a id="_idTextAnchor133"></a>10,000 years ago</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">‘You had better be quick,’ said Ezekiel Sedayne. He gestured with his gun to one of two articulated beds made of plain steel. Steel restraints at waist, throat, ankles, wrists and chest hung open, ready for Cawl. The second bed was set at a sixty degree angle to the first, top to top, so that the heads were almost touching and the feet some distance apart. Two heavy silver helmets waited on stands at the sides. Banks of machines enclosed in smooth facings filled the rest of the room. It was all so neat, so clinical.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl hesitated.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">This was the moment you were made, </span>said the voice of the mountain.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There were two Belisarius Cawls. One heard the mountain speak, the other could not. Both experienced past events as if they happened for the first time.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">You are not who you claim to be, </span>the mountain said. <span class="Bold">Curious.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Quicker than that,’ said Sedayne. ‘I do not have much time, but your friend has substantially less.’ Sedayne made a show of checking his pocket chronometer. ‘It is about ten minutes until Qvo bleeds out. At this rate, he will die.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Herminia stood between the beds. ‘In,’ she said, pointing her gun.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You swear you will save Friedisch?’ Cawl asked. ‘Give me your word.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I give you my word,’ said Sedayne. ‘I never do so insincerely. If you allow this process to go ahead, I swear he will live. I have no wish for needless death.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Very well,’ said Cawl. ‘For Friedisch.’ He meant what he said, though he was still feverishly trying to think his way out of the situation.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Herminia stood to one side and gestured at the right hand bed. Cawl sat himself on it, then lay down.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I have to restrain you,’ she said. ‘Then insert the cortical probe. That will hurt.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You enjoy this sort of thing too much. Can we dispose of her, when we are one?’ said Cawl. ‘She’s really not very pleasant.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne handed his weapon to one of his soldiers. The other kept his gun trained on Cawl. Sedayne lay himself down with a wince. The anti-agapics were wearing off.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Getting a little stiff, are we?’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Enjoy yourself while you can,’ said Sedayne. ‘There may be some small vestige of you left once my psyche is transferred into your body, but there will not be much. Certainly not enough to engage in such pointless attempts at humour.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Herminia finished binding Cawl to the bed, then opened up his memcore cover. She set it carefully aside in a stainless steel bowl. She keyed a code sequence into an instrument panel nearby that called out a cranial probe from a port in the bed. Filaments wormed their way roughly into Cawl’s memcore.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Ow!’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I told you it would hurt,’ said the Altrix. ‘Are you ready, director?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He nodded. He crossed his hands across his chest. ‘Begin, please, Altrix.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes, sir,’ she said. She removed a flap of synth skin from Sedayne’s head, exposing a memcore port similar to the one on Cawl’s own, ­unorthodox implant.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This is nothing personal, you understand,’ Sedayne said. He too winced as the probe interfaced with him. ‘The Emperor is gone. My knowledge must survive. I thank you, Belisarius Cawl. I promise to take good care of both of us.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘From where I am sitting, that is scant comfort,’ said Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne’s face hardened. ‘You could be a little more gracious. With me, you will live for thousands of years. What would you have achieved on your own?’ His eyes became malevolent slits. ‘Nothing. You should be thankful.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl watched the Altrix. Despite the peril he was in, he found being surrounded by machines and being hooked up to them comforting. He was calm, and not afraid in the least.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We’ll see who’s thaaaannnnnnn…’ His voice stuck on his last syllable like a malfunctioning voxcorder.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Begin,’ said Sedayne tersely.</p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic">Circa <a id="_idTextAnchor134"></a>10,000 years ago</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">There were thousands of children in the line, of which Belisarius Cawl was only one. To all intents and purposes they were identical, male and female alike; slight, pale, their heads shaved and their spare frames hung with robes folded from a single piece of pleated cloth. Each had a numerical tattoo across the outside of their left wrist. The numbers there were different. That was as much individuality as they were allowed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Trapped in a deep trench, watched over by buzzing cyborg menials pacing the steel lip, the children stood in a single file that stretched dead straight all the way back to the birthing chambers, now many, many miles away. When Cawl turned back, he could see a row of bald heads disappearing into the distance. Cawl turned forwards, and the same line continued on a short distance before being abruptly cut off by a wall in which were set three doors.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He had seen little of the world. Though he appeared to be about ten years of age, he was only hours old, fast-grown in the Xanthe Terra flesh vats of Magos Biologis Hammareth. There were children born on Mars in the time-honoured way&#160;– that was, after all, the initial design the Machine-God had chosen for mankind&#160;– but the higher tech-priests had no time to waste on something so trivial as procreation. The Machine-God had created man so that he might improve himself.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">This information and more had been inloaded during Cawl’s gestation, but his direct experience of life was confined to ejection from the tube, the unpleasant aftermath of that, the trench, the line and the stripe of sky framed by metal walls. The sky was burnt orange, full of enormous shapes and moving machines half obscured by clouds of drifting smog.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The air tasted of thousands of years of industry. Metallic, chemical smells burned his throat. It was wholly unpleasant, and he wished he did not have to experience it. Already he knew there were ways to remove that sensation, if he chose.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Built out from the side of the trench in front of the doors was a pulpit occupied by something that had once been a man. A mountain of cable-infested flesh, graced with many arms, the man wore a tall, pointed hat, beneath which three lenses framed in brass evaluated each child in turn. A tube went from his mouth into the workings of his pulpit. The lenses and the tube were his sole facial features. Thin scraps of oil-seamed skin held them together.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Pistons forced open the rightmost gate and a child stepped through. The man made a note in a ledger on the lectern of his pulpit, then turned his attention to the next child.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The children stepped one at a time to stand beneath his quivering bulk. Multiple mechanical arms shot out from all sides and prodded and probed the child, dusting them with tell-tale chemicals, sampling blood and spittle, testing eye pressure, blood pressure, heart rate, digestive efficiency and more. Light rays visible and invisible fanned out and swept down their skin. Sonar pulses vibrated bones. Magnetism stirred tides in their humours. X-rays flashed the silhouettes of their skeletons into datastores that would never be looked at.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Buzz, clank, hiss, bang! The machines sang.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Next supplicant,’ the man said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Buzz, clank, hiss, bang!</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">One of the three gates opened, representing, Cawl already knew, the three-fold nature of his god: Machine-God, Omnissiah, and the Motive Force.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Buzz, clank, hiss, bang!</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Next supplicant!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The left gate opened, the right gate opened, funnelling off children to their algorithmically determined fates. Rarely did the centre gate part. When it did, the man wrote a little more in his book.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Next supplicant.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Buzz, clank, hiss, bang!</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The right gate opened, the child stepped wordlessly through.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">It was Cawl’s turn.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Next supplicant.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl stepped forwards. The machines on arms whisked around him on their mysterious errands.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Who are you?’ Cawl asked.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The man leaned forwards to peer down at him over the edge of his ledger. ‘You speak?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I speak. Language has been force-implanted in my mind.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The others do not speak,’ said the man, in equal parts query, challenge and demand that Cawl be silent.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My given designation is Belisarius Cawl,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The others do not speak. They are not ready to speak. Observe.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">One of the man’s many supplemental limbs lifted. The child behind Cawl went rigid. A stream of nonsense babbled from their mouth.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Binharic, of the fourth formation,’ Cawl said. ‘They do not have the correct machinery to emit it correctly. Only this.’ He rubbed his throat with the blade of his hand. ‘This is not sufficient. Upgrade is required. I suppose it will do for now.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Emotionless red lenses peered at him for a long time. The man made a noise in his throat that hummed in the tube plugging his mouth. ‘You are precocious, aren’t you?’ his voxmitter rumbled.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are a manifestation of the Machine-God, but you are not He. Where is He? Where is my father?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The arms froze, then retracted a little.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Hmmm,’ said the man.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The centre doors clashed open. Cawl looked at them, then at the man. He did not move.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Proceed or die,’ the man said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl stepped through.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Next supplicant,’ the tech-priest said, settling a little into his throne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There was no one ahead of Cawl in the middle channel.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The gates shut hard.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">BANG!</p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic">Circa <a id="_idTextAnchor135"></a>11,000 years ago</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">The last sign of human life Ezekiel Sedayne encountered nearly killed him. A cracking in the air far away, the whine of a bullet, the screech of ricochet. He threw himself into the grit at the sound of the gunshot. It rumbled around the stony desolation of the valley, before taking flight to disappear over the mountains.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He lay there some time. No other shot came.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He rose only when the sky began to dim and the temperature drop.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Glancing nervously over his shoulder, he scrambled up the loose rock. Darkness fell quickly that time of year. By the time he had found a path, it was pitch black, and the cold began to bite. Men died in the mountains in autumn, succumbing to the chill more often than to the hill clans who dwelled in the hollow ruins of arcologies found all through the peaks. In the square caves of old rooms fires burned, but none were close to Sedayne, so he struggled on through the night. The way was perilous. He nearly lost his footing twice, but he dared not risk a light.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Night passed slowly. Stars wheeled overhead. The arcologies fell behind him, until by morning he was walking through glens of bare rock surrounded by the bald, wrinkled heads of the Alapi. Ancient roads went nowhere. Time-worn stones marked the graves of buildings. There were no signs of human life more recent than these.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Nothing and no one lived in the blasted wasteland, only the Master of the Lines.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">What Sedayne attempted was an incredible risk. The Master of the Lines came to the people. The people did not go to him. Not if they wanted to live.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The sun came up on a landscape glittering with frost. Sedayne could not feel his feet or his fingers. His rags were scant protection against mountain cold.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He breakfasted on a mouthful of brackish water. He swilled his canteen around. It sloshed loudly. There was more air than water within.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The sun rose, pitilessly bright, piteously cold. The protective layers of the upper atmosphere were thin so far north, and he felt his skin begin to blister. He adjusted the ragged hood he wore, pulling it to shade more of his face, then pushed on.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A mountain rose above him. Each step he took raised it higher, it seemed to Sedayne, so that in no time it barred his path completely, walling off the glen with crags of rock that resembled angry faces. Bare stone reflected weak, poisonous sunlight upon him, dazzling his eyes and burning his cheeks. He raised his canteen to his lips, the metal edge finding cracked, painful skin there, and drank down the last of his water. There was nowhere to get more. He was too far on to turn back. He must either complete his journey, or die.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Resolutely, he began his ascent.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Up the mountain went, up too went Sedayne. The air thinned. Each breath brought less oxygen to his body, no matter how deep he gulped it in. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He knew before he got halfway up that he was running out of time. He tasted blood in his mouth with every breath. His tongue was a parched scrap of leather. His lips stung. His cheeks burned. The mountain was taking everything from him, and still it towered overhead, featureless, grey and deadly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He rounded a boulder that forced his path into a brittle ribbon of stone. It got narrower and narrower, so that his toes stubbed on solid rock and his heels hung over empty space. The boulder was fat-bellied, swelling as the path thinned. He was forced to lean back, clinging to the boulder with fingertips rubbed raw and to the path with toes numb with pressure. His strength was giving out. He was on the verge of falling backwards, into the open air and to certain death on the tumbled stones below, when the path suddenly swung into the body of the mountain again, and the boulder’s swelling blended itself back into the cliff.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He staggered towards a shadow, arms outstretched to brace himself against the wall and rest, but found himself instead falling forwards, for the shadow was not a shadow after all, but a cave cracked into the mountain’s flank. It took a steep turn downwards. His feet found no purchase, forcing him into an ungainly rush to keep pace with his toppling body.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">His hand hit cold stone, bending it painfully. His elbow folded and his shoulder connected with hard rock. He stumbled sideways with the twist in the passage. Blackness shrank back to small refuges. Orange light danced on the angles of the stone.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The tunnel became a cavern. A fire burned in its centre. An old man squatted at the side, dangerously close, peering into the flames so intensely his beard and eyebrows were at risk of ignition. Despite the cold of the stone and the heat of the fire, the old man was practically naked, with only worn sandals on his feet and a cloth about his waist. There was a stone trough full of water to the side. Sedayne took a moment to refill his canteen. He drank some, washing the dust from his throat so he could speak.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Still panting with the altitude, Sedayne approached the fire.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I have come far,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What do you want?’ said the old man. He kept his eyes on the flames, and did not blink.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are the one that purifies the blood of the lines?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am not,’ said the man. ‘Is that why you are here, to plead for genomancy so your line runs true? You are young to seek to birth a child, and the next purity fair is not for six months. Go back down the mountain. Choose your mate. Wait. Come to the Master at the fair.’ His eyes flicked up. ‘If you survive.’ He went back to looking at the fire.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I do not wish to mate. I do not come to plead for purity of my line.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Oh?’ said the man. ‘Then tell me, why are you here?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘To learn.’ Sedayne knelt down to face the man. ‘Teach me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Teach you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I want to be like you. I want to learn the old sciences.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The old sciences are not for learning, not for the likes of you,’ said the old man. ‘Begone.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I will die. Have mercy. I have searched for lost knowledge. I have learned much. I can learn more.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Feeble pleas for deaf ears,’ said the old man. ‘I shall not let you pass. The Master will not see you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The world is broken. There is knowledge that can help. I’m no fool. Life hasn’t always been this way. There are stories, of the old world, and of the empire of stars.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There are. They are stories.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They are true!’ said Sedayne through gritted teeth.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Are they?’ said the old man. ‘Maybe they are. That does not make your case any more compelling. You will leave now or perish. Take your chances on the mountain.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I want to help people!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne moved closer. He was a big man, and he loomed over the sentinel.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The man produced a small gun from a pool of shadow on the floor. It was better made than any Sedayne had ever seen. He looked up at Sedayne. ‘Healing was only one of the masteries of the old world. Death they also perfected. Go, or you will learn but one, final lesson.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Selfishness is why the human race is dying,’ he said. ‘I sought wisdom here. It appears I was mistaken.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The old man returned his attention to the fire.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Damn you by the old gods of all the ages of men,’ said Sedayne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘To make it this far you must have a measure of wisdom already,’ the old man said. ‘Use it well.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne felt his way away from the fire and back up the tunnel. Another freezing night awaited him. He emerged into darkness, glanced back, and headed for the boulder, unsure if he had the energy to make it around to the other side safely.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">+Wait.+ A voice spoke, a voice he heard in his mind.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He turned rapidly, almost losing balance. The path continued past the cave crack, perhaps a way worn into the stone by animals long extinct, certainly nothing more than that, but on it stood a man in rich clothes. He had long, clean, brown hair, a face that was at once youthful and old, and eyes of placid brown deeper than time. It was past twilight, and yet Sedayne saw him clearly, as if he stood in a patch of noon special to him alone.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Wait,’ said the man again, aloud this time.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Who are you?’ said Sedayne in wonder. For some ridiculous reason, he felt the urge to kneel.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am the one you call the Master of the Lines, he who ensures purity of blood and genes among the peoples of this region.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You do not look like him.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I look different, if the need arises.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Is deception necessary?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Sometimes, yes. But I show myself to you truthfully.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That is not all you are, I think.’ Sedayne had never been surer of anything in his life.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am not. I am more.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Who are you?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Someone who wants to help people, like you, Ezekiel Sedayne. You were sincere when you said those same words in the cave. Do you sense the same sincerity in me?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He did. He didn’t know how, but he did. ‘Yes,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then will you serve me? I will teach you what you wish to learn. You will be of great value to me, many times over, if you accept. You will be of great value to humanity.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Tell me who you are first. I cannot serve a man who hides his identity, not unless there is good reason.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There is good reason.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There is good reason for my request as well,’ said Sedayne. ‘Humour me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I have many names, but in time I will be known as the Emperor of Mankind,’ the man said. As He said it, Sedayne had a brief but terrifying flash of a being who could crush him out of existence with a single thought, and that was only the least of His abilities.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Nevertheless, Sedayne stood his ground.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The Emperor?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes.’ The Emperor smiled as if His title were a private joke between friends.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne’s laughter echoed from the dead mountains. ‘There is only anarchy, warlords, the carrion feeders who flock around them and the people they devour. There are no emperors and no empires, no kings or kingdoms, no governance just or cruel, not now. There is only death.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There are no kingdoms yet,’ agreed the Emperor. ‘My title is for a realm yet to come. A glorious place. If you serve me, you will help to bring it into being. You will know the peace you yearn for. You will know a better world.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I wish to help people,’ said Sedayne. ‘My comfort is incidental.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘A wish to help and a wish for safety are not mutually exclusive, Ezekiel. You need have no secrets from me. You cannot have secrets from me. Be calm, I see nothing ill in you. Will you serve me?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Emperor smiled. He had expected no other answer.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then I have wonders to show you. The great work begins now.’</p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor136"></a>Cawl and Sedayne, Sedayne and Cawl&#160;– the two merged and fought like competing currents in a turbulent sea, both indivisible yet clearly at war, a paradox in the making. Cawl remembered. Sedayne remembered. They both saw what the other saw, and felt what the other felt. The proscribed technologies of Diacomes, so innocuously housed in the casings of the room, purred and hummed, pulling upon the hidden dimension of the warp. Cawl knew then that this was no simple merging of minds, but a blending of souls. Consequently he felt, as Sedayne felt, a growth in power alongside a diminishment of individuality. Sedayne was old. So many years had passed since he had first encountered the Master of Mankind that they ceased to have a meaning beyond marks on a calendar. Cawl had lived a fraction of that time. The depths of Sedayne’s knowledge and experience were such that Cawl’s brilliant but young mind was swamped by Sedayne’s, swallowed up like a tear in a downpour.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am sorry, I am sorry,’ Sedayne thought, and so Cawl thought. Sedayne meant it. His intentions were pure, after a fashion, and his sorrow hurt Cawl as if it were his own, for now it was, as were all his memories, and his knowledge, and his power. It was too much, too much, too much…</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl was dwindling away, absorbed by the being of Sedayne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am sorry,’ said Sedayne.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">BANG!</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Somewhere, somewhen, a sheet of metal clashed upon a rock. Like a drowning man, Cawl grasped for it, though in the raging storm of their merging souls it might well have dashed him to pieces.</p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor137"></a>BANG!</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl opened his eyes. Sedayne’s eyes. He was on the bridge in other mountains far from the Alapi. Centuries separated the two memories. But memory is wise to time’s illusion, and nothing separated them at all. One room was exited, and another entered.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Belisarius Cawl,’ said the Emperor.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Confused by the name, Sedayne looked upon his hands. They were old and veined already. Decades of war lay between this moment and the moment that saw Cawl and Sedayne inside the engines of Diacomes. Another room in time. Another door that could be opened at will by the speaker.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My name is Ezekiel Sedayne,’ said Sedayne. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘For now,’ agreed the Emperor.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Emperor was by his side at the bridge’s parapet. Cawl, or was it Sedayne, trembled as he looked upon Him, but He appeared unremarkable, as He often did. His long hair was tied back. He wore a scientist’s white, crisp garb. He was not tall, and nor was He short. He was handsome, but not outrageously so. Slight but not thin. An unremarkable being were it not for the terrifying sense of power that radiated from Him, as untamed as the heart of a star.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sedayne felt fuzzy. The working of time demands that memories of the future be hard to hold, and they slipped away. Why had he come out there?</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘To rest,’ he said aloud. But he did not remember what he was doing before he came to the bridge. ‘You are the Emperor,’ said Cawl. Or Sedayne, or both of them.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am,’ said the Emperor.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Am I meeting you?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You have met me many times, Belisarius,’ said the Emperor.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘But not as…’ he frowned a frown on Sedayne’s face. It was a younger face, but still old. ‘But not as me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘In a manner of speaking.’ The Emperor looked at him sidelong. ‘In another manner, you are Ezekiel Sedayne, and always have been, and Cawl is a fragment. An artefact left behind by a desperate man’s attempt to stay alive.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That hasn’t happened yet,’ said Cawl. ‘When is this?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Every moment, no moment, a moment gone. Nothing ever passes, not truly, but goes only beyond notice.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Ah,’ said Cawl, or Sedayne. ‘You are free of this. Is that so?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No one is free of time,’ said the Emperor. ‘Not even me. As long lived as I am, it is ironic that the one thing I lack is time.’ The Emperor frowned. ‘There is never enough.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Is this a dream within a dream, a dream remembered, or did this really happen?’ asked Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Emperor laughed. It was a sound as terrible as avalanches thundering down mountainsides.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Is there any difference between those things?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Are you always this frustratingly gnomic?’ said Cawl. ‘Because, to be frank, it is a little disappointing.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Emperor laughed again, with genuine mirth. ‘I do like you, Belisarius, though many do not. But it is not your duty to be popular, it is to be <span class="Italic">important</span>. Every dream is a reality somewhere. Know this, Belisarius Cawl, I will need you. You will think you have betrayed me. You will not in the end.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What are you talking about? You are the Omnissiah! I could never betray you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You will,’ said the Emperor sadly. ‘But you will be right to. You will not again.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Does Sedayne remember this conversation?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Foresight is not a steady friend, Belisarius. One day it may strike with startling clarity. For centuries it is only a feeling. This is a good day.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Did this really happen?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Emperor smiled again.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am really here?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">BANG!</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The metal hit the stone. Their fight was not over, and never would be.</p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic">Now</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><span class="Bold"><a id="_idTextAnchor138"></a>This is who you are, </span>said the voice of the mountain. <span class="Bold">Impure. Blended. Not one creature. Not two. Many. A poisonous slick of spirits cased in meat and clumsy technology. Pathetic.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am not unique in this regard,’ said Cawl. He was nowhere again, in a place that existed yet that had no physical domain. He was within the infosphere of the mountain, and the mind imprisoned by the machine encompassed him. ‘Mental enhancement within my subset of my species is often attained by cortical linkage. There are therefore many blended personalities. Other sections of humanity employ other methods, as do certain xenos.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He spoke to the being over a network of quantum particles flashing in and out of existence. The tech was superior to any he had witnessed, greater in sophistication even than mankind’s at the height of its power.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yet Cawl had a way in. Quietly, he began to exert more of his influence on the mechanisms of the Pharos.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Everything living is unique. Uniqueness of creation and experience gives them their flavour. </span>The mountain’s presence coiled round him, threatening to constrict at any moment.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then I am unique in the breadth of my knowledge. There is no other like me in all the galaxy. If you wish to be free and to see your enemies scattered, then only I can help you,’ said Cawl. His enhanced mind, now fully enwrapped about the mountain’s poly-dimensional machine-spirit, prepared its key.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">We wonder what you would taste like.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘If you devour me, how can I serve you?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">You are afraid.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘All men are afraid, as are gods. You fear entrapment here, forever.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Slowly, carefully, Cawl extended his cypher coding into the outer web of xenos data. He felt a thrill of fear as he did so. These were always the escapades he enjoyed the most, the sneaking into the sleeping ogre’s castle, the stealing of his treasures.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">You dare guess our mind? You know nothing! </span>The presence reared, perturbing the chains of logic that held it within the infosphere as the beams of empyrical energy trapped it in the physical world. Cawl froze his work, but only the being’s pride was affronted. It had not detected his ploy.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">We have seen your god. The waking networks of our treacherous children sing of him from one dynasty to the other.</span> <span class="Bold">He is no god. He is nothing. There were other beings who had pretensions to divinity. They died. He will die. A being like he can cheat time. We transcend it! We are time, and space, and the bonds between. He is no god. We are.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then I beg you, please, great one, reveal yourself to me. You have seen within my soul. You know that my mission here is pure, you know I can do what you require. I seek your knowledge. I pledge myself to serve you. I wish what you wish for. Together we can end the war that has corrupted space and time. We can purge the poison of Chaos and return the great work of the Machine-God to full order. That is all I desire! Order and calm and good function to all things.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There was a long silence. A millennia’s worth of alien data raced past Cawl from hidden dimensions. The architecture of the necron infosphere was perfect in every way, and gloriously, multiply purposed. His own codings spread themselves out within the Pharos infosphere’s defences, meshing here, changing there, bringing all points of ingress under his control.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Yes. The material realm versus the psychic. The warp must be banished. We can give you such secrets.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do!’ cried Cawl. ‘Who else if not I? Your children work towards this end, but they are clumsy, they have forgotten much of what you taught them. They cannot do it. You are trapped. Your siblings are broken and scattered.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">And you can repair the damage of millions of years? We think not. You are weak.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Torrents of alien data flashed around Cawl. He was so tempted to plunge into them, right then. All he needed to do was fling open the doors and jump.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The temptation was overwhelming.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He paused. Something troubled him. Multiple copies of his intellect sped around the Pharos network. What he saw made him swear, a rich biological set of phrases long since gone from the Gothic tongue.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The systems containing the being and guarding the Pharos’ trove of data were one and the same. He was going to have to let it out.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am strong,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The presence ceased its spiralling.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">We are similar. You are not yourself, and nor are we. You are a composite. We are a fragment. Be not mistaken, we have no special affection for you, this is our sole connection. But it is enough to convince us to spare you, Cawl of the humans. You shall free us. You shall be rewarded. We are mighty enough to survive separation from the confinement of the necrodermis. We shall journey the galaxy, and join with our sundered parts. The necrontyr will rue the day they chose to betray their gods. We gave them everything they wished for and they killed us. They will pay.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The being’s rage was cold, almost emotionless, expressed in the furious vibrations of atomic energies rather than through cruder, chemical reaction.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">For aeons we have been imprisoned within this mountain. For aeons we have plotted our revenge. Eight fragments of eight gods were given over to slavery here. We consumed the others to survive. The necrontyr are fools. They are arrogant. They kept too large a piece of us alive to power this nodal point of theirs. They will regret it, for we remember what we were, and what we will one day be again.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The infosphere’s cascades of light stuttered. A different light took its place, a brassy star shine. From the night of the nowhere realm it shone, coalescing as the mountain spoke into a figure that had no shape, forcing Cawl’s mind to impose a form he could understand upon it; arms, legs, a head, a torso forged of gold.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">We are the ultimate manifestation of order. No logic or illogic can bind me.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">It spoke now with a mouth that blazed with stolen sunlight.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">We are Zarhulash, the Potentate. We are C’tan, of the stars and the tides of time and light. We are the manifestation of this universe’s form and being. We are a god, and you will serve me. Set me free.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I require a moment!’ Cawl shouted into the being’s effulgence. ‘I must subdue the things that hold you. I can release you no other way!’ His infospherical probes poised to take control of the routines holding the C’tan. At the same time, he primed his subminds to storm the walls of the Pharos’ network. Both parts were inextricably linked. If he wished to access the mountain’s secrets, both gates had to be taken down simultaneously.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">You attempt to deceive us!</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Great one, I ask only to better serve you. The machines, they are attempting to prevent your release. I can help you!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A tense moment passed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Let it be so, </span>said Zarhulash.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A door opened. Behind was a treasure of knowledge. But it was not his, not yet. Machine-spirits guarded it. Things watched him with jealous eyes. He needed a little more time. The C’tan could see the way out.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He didn’t have time, so he was going to have to make it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Bold">Release us!</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">Points of green light fizzled into existence around Cawl’s slumped body, forming a network that grew in complication until he was completely enmeshed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Step back,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The mountain thrummed. The pattern sent out a burst of lines, each point sending links to dozens of others.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It looks like a stellar cartograph,’ said Felix. ‘Look! This is Sotha, I am sure of it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A ball of light occupied Sotha’s position at the centre of the map. It glowed with increasing potency as the map continued to spread, the galaxy unrolled by points of light, billions and billions of them.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Every star in the galaxy,’ said Primus. ‘This information…’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Will be incredibly valuable to Belisarius Cawl,’ said Felix. ‘There are more of these nexus points. More Pharoses. Hundreds of them.’ A network of beacons appeared in the galaxy, each one large and bright.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The mountain’s vibration became a steady rumble. The other beacons glowed brighter, initiating a third increase in luminance that spread out rays in all directions, linking beacon to beacon. The Pharos shook with building power. The growing light pushed back the dark past the sarcophagi, revealing signs of withering on the faces of the dead seven.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The light fell on a crumpled form. Metal limbs bent out of shape, a head twisted around on the neck to stare over its back. Legs part-absorbed by the stone.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl’s servant,’ said Felix. ‘Qvo-87.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix ignited the power field around his fist. Psi-fire shone behind Primus’ eye lenses.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl has betrayed us,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Belisarius Cawl came awake with a shudder. The lights of his enhancements ignited. Where before they burned cool reds and blues, now all were uniformly green.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">His feet extended, clanking on blackstone, pushing him up. He raised his arms and stretched as if awoken from a well-deserved rest.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">His eyes were alive with the lurid glow of necron technology.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He grinned.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Decimus! Primus! You made it down here.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What are you doing?’ Felix demanded.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘All will be revealed. Do stop pointing that gun at me, Decimus. Whatever happens next, gentlemen, please refrain from firing at anything.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The mountain shook harder. The beams of light fixed on the sarcophagus flickered out.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What have you done?’ said Felix. Primus, sensing danger to his master from the tetrarch, shifted his attention to Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘In there,’ said Cawl, pointing a metal finger at the sarcophagus, ‘is a star god of the necron forerunner race. It’s not complete, but it is the largest shard I have yet encountered.’ He frowned. ‘It is incredibly dangerous.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix looked from priest to sarcophagus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The C’tan,’ said Felix incredulously. ‘You are releasing a C’tan!’ Felix raised his gun.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do not threaten the archmagos,’ said Primus, striding to interpose himself between Felix and Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am releasing him,’ said Cawl. ‘Right now. In fact, here he comes! Remember, no shooting, Decimus!’ He held up an admonishing hand. ‘This is a very delicate time. I nearly have what we came for. Some of what I am about to do will look foolish. It is not.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl…’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus moved closer to Felix. ‘My master knows what he is doing, be assured,’ Primus said. ‘He is no traitor.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Blazing starlight speared from the sides of the coffin.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You had better be right,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The sarcophagus began to open.</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>