<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-12</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-12" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-16" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor064"></a>Chapter Twelve</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor065"></a>The Hall of the Founder</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor066"></a> <br/> </span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor067"></a>Light flooded the hall, and then there were warriors everywhere; men of the Scythes of the Emperor, running down the stairs and up the stairs into the hall, firing behind them as they came.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The party reacted predictably, switching their weapons to bear upon the newcomers, but it took them only an instant to see them for what they were. Though solid seeming, they were not. Yansar gasped as one ran right through him. Tullio moved out of the path of another.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Hold fire!’ Felix commanded.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They are phantoms. They’re not real,’ said Daelus. His voice broke up, and he had to repeat himself twice.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Steady!’ Felix said, seeing the unease taking the Scythes of the Emperor. ‘This is an image capture.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This is xenos sorcery,’ said Cominus, watching the silent rush of Space Marines.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No,’ said Thracian helplessly. ‘Why must we bear witness to this? I could not save them. I could not help them.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I do not see you among them,’ said Felix. It sounded more of an accusation than he had intended.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I was not here,’ Thracian said. ‘I was not here to help them. I pulled my company out.’ The vox stabilised, as if relishing Thracian’s shame. ‘I ignored my orders. We evacuated. We left them to die. This is the last stand of the Scythes of the Emperor.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Your Chapter lives, thanks to you,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My brothers died,’ said Thracian angrily.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The way the light shone on these Space Marines betrayed a different time of day and active lumens in the ceiling. Shadows from objects Felix and his men could not see passed over the room. The projection field encompassed nearly all of the Hall of the Founder, but it ended with sharp delineation between the then and the now before it hit the walls, and the company instinctively moved to the edge of the display. Once they were out of the display field it seemed to become more real and the present became unreal, no more solid than an uneasy premonition. Felix felt as if he were being pulled into the scene the machine replayed, and that if he only listened a little more attentively, he would hear the shouts of the warriors and the reports of their guns.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">In silent play the warriors ran together, forming up in a circle around a pair of captains, a Chaplain and three company banner bearers who occupied the great iron rondel. Stray tyranid beasts exploded under gunfire as three warriors forced the bronze doors closed. Owing to the limitations of the projection, Felix could not see what was coming for them, but he knew, and his hearts quickened in sympathy. Many of the Scythes of the Emperor in the display were unhelmeted, and Felix saw their lips moving in song. The words were different to those he knew from his own Chapter, but he recognised a death hymn when he saw it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl watched Space Marines past and present with interest. Qvo-87 took notes.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The guns of the Scythes of the Emperor flashed. Bolt trails disappeared beyond the edge of the projection field. Short bursts became fully automatic fire.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">In a tsunami of garish alien flesh the tyranids rushed into the chamber. Felix felt their ghostly presence as they passed through him, stirring his Emperor’s gifts to life and flooding his body with combat stimulants. The same was happening to them all. They tensed, ready to sell their lives as their brothers in the doomed Chapter died.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Running tyranids burst from the staircase leading down. Winged tyranids boiled from the staircase leading up in a rush of crimson and cream.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">In seconds, the Scythes of the Emperor were overwhelmed. The desperation on their faces, the sorrow at the loss of their Chapter and the shame of defeat, all seemed so much stronger without the faintest whisper of sound.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix watched the standard of the Fifth Company fall to the ground, painted with arcs of arterial spray. He saw a desperate scout try and fail to take it up.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Enough,’ said Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Chaplain swung his crozius, obliterating the skull of a genestealer in a cloud of disruption lightning. Three more tore him to pieces. He fell near where his broken armour still rested on the floor. Statues collapsed under the onrushing horde to lie where they lay in the present.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl! Turn it off!’ Felix ordered.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">More death, more blood. Loyal servants of the Emperor clawed down to make feedstock for tyranid bioforms. They could not save themselves. They could not be helped. All Felix could do was watch them be ripped apart and be consumed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘This is an abomination,’ growled Cominus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The living Scythes were lost in grief, their weapons lowering as they saw their brothers slaughtered.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A Space Marine was hardier than a man, tougher than steel, immune to shock and doubt in all but the worst of circumstances, but if the mind of an Adeptus Astartes broke, it broke catastrophically. Such dishonour as presented to them now was enough to shatter any warrior’s sanity.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Alpha Primus, stand aside,’ Felix said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus looked down implacably.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Out of the way! Cawl, shut down the machine!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl did not respond. He stood half hidden by the whirl of past combat, tyranid attack beasts leaping through him and stabbing down with bladed limbs to finish the last few Scythes of the Emperor, his hands moving in ecstatic gestures.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The mountain shook in response to Cawl’s delving. A heavy pulsing emanated from deep beneath their feet, throbbing through the mountain with such force that Felix’s vision blurred with each pounding thump, but the tableau of destruction remained clear as the airless Sothan day. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl! Shut it down!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘He cannot hear you, tetrarch,’ shouted Daelus. ‘He is lost to machine rapture. The xenos engine has him.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Can you do anything?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Daelus shook his head. ‘There is nothing I can do, my lord. Do you not see, this is far beyond my abilities.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Watch your tone, brother,’ Cominus voxed. His reprimand was shredded by violent, alien static.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Let me through,’ Felix said again. Bolt rifles pointed at Primus until he stood aside, allowing Felix to move towards the archmagos. He steeled himself to push his way through the phantoms fighting and dying in the light of that fateful day.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The mountain shook around the embattled Scythes. Further portions of the room collapsed, revealing more of the active blackstone beneath. The hall was losing its form, becoming a rubble-filled cave of dark rock full of racing lights. Space Marines shouted out warnings as huge chunks fell from the ceiling. Their voices broke up completely and the vox filled with a roar.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">In the middle of the past, Felix could not see the present, only another bulwark of the Imperium falling to alien hate. Men who had died in that room years before died again. Moving through the crowd of ghosts was physically taxing, and his armour protested. He leaned into invisible forces that tried with all the mountain’s might to push him back until finally, he was forced to stop. He was poised an arm’s length from Cawl, his face inches from a warrior bathed in battle sweat fighting for a few more seconds of life against a towering beast composed solely of chitinous plates, gristle and ravening hunger.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The machine was howling. Weird screeches and hooting boomed from the depths of the fortress-monastery over their vox network.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl! Shut it down! Shut it down!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">His words were heard only by himself. The mountain shook.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl!’ He pushed against the storm.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A genestealer turned slit yellow eyes upon Felix, detached itself from the projection, and attacked.</p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic">Circa <a id="_idTextAnchor068"></a>10,000 years ago</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">Cawl was in some other place where a vast and poisonous mind regarded him. Yellow and black armour, red and cream chitin, the mad tumble of melee, all gone. Instead there was blackness of the most warm and intrusive sort. Someone, or something, was breathing down his neck. He was surprised to find himself sitting in a chair, a warm metal cylinder a foot long in his hands with a single green light burning steadily at the top. Besides the indicator lumen, it was featureless but for a micron-thin seam where the lid screwed into the vessel.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He was holding it in hands that were still all flesh. He twitched in surprise. This was not his body as he remembered. It was small, and lacking facility.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Still human,’ he breathed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What?’ The presence behind him was Friedisch. Of course it was. The sense of the other, greater being was quickly forgotten.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl blinked eyes that were also of flesh. Confusion faded.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Stop breathing on me, Friedisch, you are putting me off.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Friedisch moved away. Cawl became aware of the gentle hum of well-maintained systems, and reality slotted itself back together. They had escaped from Horus’ war fleet. They were in the warp. There were no xenos monsters. No Space Marines fighting. No burning ambition.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Silence on the <span class="Italic">Silencia</span>.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl looked up from the cylinder with a scowl. ‘Are you making a joke, Friedisch?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Friedisch gave a little grin. ‘I am!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl turned back to his work with a shake of his head.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Friedisch gripped his friend’s shoulder amicably. ‘You always have to be the best at everything, Belisarius. The most intelligent, the most gifted, the quickest witted.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That is because I usually am.’ </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You are modest too,’ said Friedisch, who was in too good a mood to be infuriated by Cawl.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am modest!’ Cawl wore a technologist’s loop. Focusing motors whirred as he turned the cylinder over carefully in his hands, reading the machine marks on the metal with a seer’s attention. Fragments of memories perturbed him yet. He saw a flash of a Space Marine in an unfamiliar armour type die to the claws of a xenos fiend.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He put the cylinder down hard, certainly harder than he meant. It clanked on the bench.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Are you all right, Belisarius?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Friedisch sat down in a chair behind Cawl. Though the <span class="Italic">Silencia</span> was a luxurious barque as befitted its previous owner’s status, Hester Aspertia Sigma-Sigma had been of the Mechanicum, and so it benefitted from a well-supplied workshop.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I honestly don’t know.’ He glanced upwards, perhaps expecting to see an answer in the turmoil of energies surrounding their ship. Instead he saw a ceiling crowded with hanging tools and dormant mechanisms. ‘Maybe it’s the warp.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It’s funny, I was going to mention that. Have you noticed how smooth our transit is?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I had not, actually.’ Cawl glanced at the cylinder again. Too preoccupied with the clone-jar. Or…</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Teeth and claws and dying men.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘But it is,’ Cawl said, forcing the image away. ‘Very smooth.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The last time I took a voyage through the immaterium, I thought I would die. Or worse,’ said Friedisch. ‘But this, well this…’ He frowned. ‘This is like it used to be. Before the war,’ he said quietly. ‘Why do you think that is?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I’m sure we’ll find out when we emerge,’ he said. ‘There is no point speculating on the unknown without sufficient data to reach a conclusion. If we allow ourselves to be drawn into the conversation, we will waste valuable time on unprovable hypotheses. We will find out in due course.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Never a wasted moment, eh, Belisarius?’ Friedisch picked up a magnetic wrench, peered at it, and put it down. He had never shared Cawl’s drive for work, but then, few did.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I know you don’t share my concern about wasting time, Friedisch, but you should. Of all things, time is the most precious. More precious than knowledge. Time is the only thing we cannot make more of. Time is the limitation on all other things. When a person is born, they are in servitude to time. We spend time stupidly, when we should hoard it like treasure. I do not like to waste time. There is never enough of it, and there are many thieves who covet it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He picked up the cylinder again, appalled with himself at how carelessly he had dropped it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We might die before we arrive,’ said Friedisch. ‘The warp is cruel.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘If we do, we are dead. If we are not, and I do nothing, spending the hours in speculation, leisure or fear, they are wasted. Death comes for us all. What we do while it approaches is the only freedom we have. And I have this to think on.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Any progress?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘So now you engage?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am frightened, Belisarius,’ said Friedisch, ‘but I am also bored, and though you seem to forget it sometimes, I too am of the Cult.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Well then,’ said Cawl. He tapped the cylinder. ‘Within this is a half-formed clone copy of Hester Aspertia Sigma-Sigma, late and treacherous magos domina of Trisolian.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Indeed. A clever guarantee of immortality.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Not so clever,’ said Cawl. ‘A little desperate, even. She will not be coming back, for we have her last remaining clone seed. If this were to fall into the hands of our peers, it would almost certainly be destroyed, but that would be a terrible shame. Sigma-Sigma encoded all her knowledge into her clones. It’s just waiting there to be picked up. Think, Friedisch. She was a shrewd tactician. We could become so ourselves.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘But why? I never had you for a soldier.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am not. But tactics and strategy are knowledge. All knowledge is valuable. All knowledge yearns to be known, and we as members of the Cult Mechanicus yearn to know it. Do you know that I was once a student of Diacomes of Gestus Decorum?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I confess I have never heard of him, or of wherever Gestus Decorum is.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You know I have served many masters.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes, yes, as you are always telling me.’ Friedisch affected Cawl’s voice. ‘“Friedisch, while you were diligently working your way through the lower mysteries, I was travelling the galaxy! Buck up, my man! Learn! Learn! Learn all you can, from whom you can.” That’s about it, no?’ He toyed with another tool.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl scowled at Friedisch’s mockery, but continued just the same. ‘Diacomes was a magos-ascetic. A hermit. He was also an incredibly skilled biologian.’ He smiled. ‘I think the path biologicus is my favourite discipline.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Organic life is the Machine-God’s greatest accomplishment within the scope of the Great Work, all praise He who is three-in-one,’ agreed Friedisch. ‘By giving us life within an organic shell he presents us with the means and opportunity to improve upon physicality, as is his divine plan. He grants us complex weakness so we might learn metallic strength, and ascend to his level of machinic perfection.’ He scratched absentmindedly at the raw skin around his augmetic.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Such is life’s great test,’ said Cawl. ‘Now, the linkage of minds has been possible since the Age of Technology,’ said Cawl. ‘But there are a number of risks. Full linkage between living minds leads inevitably to psychosis as the personalities make war on each other for dominance. Hence the need for the moderation of the manifold in our Titan Legio. As such technologies demonstrate, it is impossible to achieve full blended consciousness between two living minds. Of course, it is possible to boost one’s own brainpower by linkage to a cloned or repurposed brain, thoroughly wiped, but the key there is that the brain be unformed, and patterning must be undertaken by the user. If one wishes to gain the full extent of knowledge within a deceased or living brain, it is impossible, for knowledge is indivisible from experience, and personality is the accumulation of experience. Ergo, personality must survive.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Therefore, absorbing a person’s full knowledge risks conflict between personalities, which leads to psychosis,’ said Friedisch.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Which leads to death, and the loss of knowledge,’ said Cawl. ‘It is not a risk, it is a certainty. Diacomes, however, was certain this could be overcome. There are many interpersonal cybernetic networks, temporary and permanent, that enhance the capabilities of all involved, but no way of absorbing human knowledge into an extant personality without damaging or destroying that personality.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Did Diacomes do it?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The Dark Age technologists did it. He was sure of that. There is a way to transcend human limitations. Knowledge may be passed on.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘But did Diacomes rediscover the technique?’ Friedisch pressed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl placed the clone cylinder carefully back into its rest.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No,’ said Cawl. ‘But he came close.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl’s hand strayed to his memcore. His fingers rubbed on warm metal.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘And you think you can do it?’ Friedisch snorted. ‘Really, Belisarius.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I–’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang</span>.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What was that?’ said Friedisch.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang</span>. The ship shuddered.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I think we’re coming out of the warp.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘With no warning?’ said Friedisch incredulously.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I don’t think Hester Aspertia’s Navigator likes us very much,’ said Cawl. ‘He’s a nasty little mutant.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A musical refrain began to play throughout the ship.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Oh, now he’s telling us!’ said Friedisch. ‘I’d dearly like to wring his scrawny neck.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No you wouldn’t,’ said Cawl. He locked the cylinder into place, then after a moment’s thought, picked it up, opened his robes and inserted it into a compartment concealed in his stomach. ‘You’re not very warlike.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘When did you put that in?’ said Friedisch. ‘In your, in your gut!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We’ve been on this ship for weeks, my friend. While you’ve been moping, I’ve been working.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang</span>. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The ship jumped hard.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Come on, we should get to the command deck, we’re about to arrive at Ryza.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Lead on, Beli–’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">BANG!</span></p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic">Circa <a id="_idTextAnchor069"></a>10,000 years ago</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent">Cawl frowned. He was on a ship, now he wasn’t. Something wasn’t right. He felt…</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Tall, he thought. I feel tall?</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang. </span>Metal struck dully off rock. <span class="Italic">Bang.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The ship was gone from his mind. He was as tall as he had always been. He was outside the laboratorium complex, on the bridge in the mountains where he liked to go to think, and there was someone else upon the bridge with him, but he could not look at him. How could he forget that?</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am sorry, I am disturbing you,’ said the man. ‘I will leave you to your meditations.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do not go,’ pleaded Cawl. ‘I want more than anything to speak to you.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then look upon me,’ said the man. ‘You have nothing to fear.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl laughed apologetically.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I find I can’t, I am sorry.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Overhead a mangy bird circled, black and brown feathers stuck out at untidy angles. Terra once had an abundance of wildlife matched by few worlds. They were so precious, Terran analogues. Inevitably, mankind ruined them wherever they were found, as he had ruined his own home. On Terra a few pest species persisted, mutated more often than not. The planet was not unique in its impoverishment.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I know you could make me, but,’ he gabbled. ‘But I’d…’ Cawl swallowed. ‘I’d rather you didn’t. It behoves one to make these efforts oneself. Do you not think?’ His voice was strange, not his own, deeper, more arrogant.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I do not force men to do anything, Belisarius Cawl.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Why did the man call him that? Belisarius Cawl was not his name.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The man chuckled softly at what Cawl thought. He could hear what he was thinking. He could hear what everyone was thinking. He came to stand by Cawl’s side. ‘I require a break from the work also. I will stand with you here a while, and we can enjoy the view together. I find it helps to imagine how it will look when it is restored, and life is returned in full measure to this world. Would you like me to describe how it should look? I remember. I could show you, if you would like.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl still could not turn his head to look at the man, but he smiled, and let gratitude warm his foreign voice.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I would like that very much.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Then you must look at me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Hesitantly, Cawl looked up into the brown eyes of the man. He expected them to be brown, because they always were. Incredible eyes, steeped in compassion and power. Otherwise, He seemed so nondescript, with long brown hair and skin the colour of light recaff. At least He was today. The Emperor’s face was unremarkable, and should have been easily recalled, but although Cawl had met Him many times, he could never remember exactly what He looked like between meetings, as if He were not a man, but a figure from a recurring dream only remembered during sleep, and forgotten with the first rays of daylight. It was rarely the same face twice.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Emperor of Mankind smiled. He had an easy smile. Reassuring. Warm. His smile was so full of positive things that the thought of His frown frightened Cawl. If it were as judgemental as the Emperor’s smile was uplifting, he had no wish ever to see it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Please,’ the Emperor said, gesturing down at the riverbed. ‘I did not mean to interrupt your rest. It is good to stop and think, to prevent us rushing in haste into decisions we may later regret. Haste is man’s greatest enemy. Contemplation is a neglected art.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang </span>went the metal.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl’s body prickled with electricity to be so close to Him. It was neither a pleasant nor a wholly unpleasant feeling.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I have something to ask you,’ said the Emperor. ‘A personal favour.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl was taken aback. The mightiest man in existence wanted something from him. He gaped. The Emperor found this amusing. His smile quirked.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cawl recovered himself. ‘Anything, my lord. You have but to command it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Thank you.’ He paused. The Emperor was unsure of what to say. When He opened His mouth, from it came…</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Bang bang bang BANG!</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The sensation of the presence returned. Not Friedisch, not the Emperor, the other thing, the thing in the warm and intimate dark that was watching him. It seemed… bored.</p>
			<p class="Centred_in-text"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor070"></a>Now</span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><span class="Italic">BANGBANGBANGBANGBANG.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix let his boltstorm gauntlet fire on full automatic. The machine-spirit exulted in the freedom to do violence, chattering out a delight of staccato explosions. Fire burst all around as the bolts found their mark. Shrapnel cracked from his ceramite, and his helm chimed warnings at the proximity of the explosions. The genestealer was gutted, lifted up and away from him, its back blown out. Alien blood spattered over Felix’s faceplate, obscuring his view of the Hall of the Founder further. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Among the echoes of the Scythes’ last stand, living genestealers lurked, and they were throwing themselves out of the Pharos’ remembrance and onto Felix’s men. Threat alarms chimed in his helmet. He held his fist out, shooting almost blind. His battleplate cogitator had as much trouble telling past from present as he did. Targeting reticules danced over xenos killing machines and fired, only to find them phantoms. He activated his sword’s power field and swung wildly. In passing through a creature that was not there, it cleaved into one that was, cutting through its exoskeletal ribs and exploding its organs with a flash of light.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix was knocked off balance by the blow. The forces emanating from the centre of the chamber buffeted him, sending him turning about as he was pushed back. The projection of the battle showed nothing of these vortices, but to be close to the centre of the display was to suffer the wrath of invisible storms.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl!’ he shouted. ‘Shut it off!’ His vox emission was strangled by the Pharos’ workings, shattered into feedback that made his ears ring. Cawl stood rigidly at the centre of it all, his acolyte still calmly taking notes. A genestealer leapt out of the projection, and claws outstretched to gut the magos encountered an energy field that threw it back with a flash of light. Stray bolt-rounds were similarly deflected. Several were transmuted to bursts of energy as a full burst clipped him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Watch the archmagos!’ Felix roared. ‘Control your fire!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Again his words were thrown back at him. Vox was dead. He turned from the centre, guard up, and headed out to the edge of the room.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The other Space Marines were doing the same, backing further away from the projection circle and the play of ghosts. Genestealers that emerged from the hard edge of the phantoms were easily marked and cut down. Felix’s helm display was a confused mess of broken inputs. He could not call up the status of his warriors, but at least one armoured figure of today was down amid yesterday’s dead.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix signed one-handed with his boltstorm gauntlet, the fat digits of the power fist limning his orders with lightning.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">Double fire line, backs to wall, avoid magos. Move!</span> he signed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">His and Thracian’s men stood shoulder to shoulder, their boltguns and bolt rifles putting out a wall of shot that nothing could cross. Genestealers reared up and died, purple blood flying from their crimson bodies. There was confusion, no time to think, only to fire. Thracian’s Terminators were moving round the projection to create a crossfire, trusting their heavy suits of armour to protect them from savage tyranid claws.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The creatures had seemed to be materialising directly from the projection, but then Alpha Primus and Gathein began to hurl psychic lightning at the enemy, lighting up the room, and Felix saw the source of the threat was on the far side of the chamber.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">They’re coming from the lower levels</span>, he signed, and directed half the Space Marines to lay down covering fire on the entrance. Brother Ixen pumped the slide of his grenade launcher repeatedly, filling the down stair with clouds of shrapnel. The light from the explosions and the witchfire revealed a press of aliens, all rushing up heedlessly into the Imperial guns. All was performed in the perfect silence of vacuum, no vox, no communication or outside sounds, only the sound of his own breathing and tremors from detonations powerful enough to overcome the Pharos’ trembling.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Cominus ceased firing. He took his bolt rifle in one had so he could sign to the tetrarch.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">They are fleeing. They are making for the exit.</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix saw that this was true. The majority of the creatures that made it into the room were not coming for them, but pouring towards the bronze doors and the Crooked Stair. Screened by the Pharos’ projection, their flight had evaded his notice but now he saw.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The genestealers were running away, right into the guns of the Space Marines outside.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A surge of power from the alien machine caused a loud crack across the vox. The display went out. The room fell dark. A pack of genestealers ran along the wall, heading for the doors. They died by the strobing light of bolt-fire.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The vox snapped back on.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Cawl!’ Felix shouted, striding forwards. The room seemed smaller now the display was off. Alien bodies crunched under his feet.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Ah, tetrarch,’ said Cawl. He smiled as if he had been momentarily distracted. ‘Impressive, isn’t it? More active than I thought.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix stood before the magos.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You could have killed us all,’ said Felix. Behind him Yansar and Aratus were attending to the fallen. Felix’s systems were working again. Two mortis runes shone in his eyes.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yes, well. Every investigation carries a certain amount of risk.’ Cawl seemed distracted. Qvo irritated Felix by continuing his note taking.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘My lord!’ Yansar hailed him. ‘Brother Tullio is gravely injured. Brother Tobias and Sergeant Quintos of the Scythes are dead.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Scythes’ Apothecary was already working on them to extract their geneseed, while Thracian sent two of his warriors out to check on the gene vault in the Walk of the First Scythes.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Give me your prognosis on Tullio,’ Felix demanded.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I can return him to combat effectiveness, if I can treat him somewhere with adequate facilities.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘If you don’t?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There is a fifteen per cent chance of death. In any case, he can’t fight like this, and his armour’s compromised.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You may use our apothecarion,’ said Thracian. The Chapter Master joined Felix and Cawl. ‘We can regroup in the Emperor’s Watch and assess the situation while Brother Tullio is seen to and Sebastion completes his task. The tower can easily be held if need be. The upper chambers will not be so affected by the things under this mountain. They were sanctified by the Emperor Himself at the dawn of the Imperium.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The Emperor has no hold over this place,’ said Alpha Primus. ‘It is old, and evil.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Do you feel it, brother?’ asked Gathein.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I feel nothing at all. That is how I know,’ said Primus.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘That’s all theoretical. The practical is that I’ll need to get Tullio’s armour off and work on him in a properly equipped facility,’ said Yansar.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am sure we can repressurise part of the tower,’ said Thracian.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Yansar?’ asked Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It would be better than taking him back down the stairs and evacuating him from the mountain,’ the Apothecary agreed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The disabling of the defence grid is our primary objective at this time,’ said Felix. ‘We will see it is done. Cawl, before you attempt anything like that you are to consult with me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘As you wish, Decimus. But I’m sure you’ll agree, impressive results. Impressive results!’ He moved off in consultation with Qvo.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The genestealers are the lords of Mount Pharos now. We must be more careful,’ said Gathein.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Can you sense their psychic net?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is incoherent,’ said Gathein. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Primus nodded. ‘Disrupted. They are afraid.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They are weak,’ said Cominus. He bent over a shattered corpse. ‘Look at this. These wounds are not from our weapons.’ He jabbed two fingers into a perfectly neat hole burned into the creature’s side. ‘Nor is this.’ A similarly clean slash wound had cut away some of its spinal crest. ‘These look like particle beam wounds.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They were fleeing,’ said one of the Scythes. His name plate proclaimed him to be Keltru. Both his legs were bionic replacements.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix nodded, and looked down the stairs. ‘From the Pharos.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The engines are still running,’ said Daelus. He datapulsed a screed of readings to the tetrarch. ‘I’m seeing ghost echoes of energy spikes everywhere. What has Belisarius Cawl done?’</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>