<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>08-40k-Content-14</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x08-40k-Content-14" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-18" class="Chapter_Book"><a id="_idTextAnchor079"></a>Chapter Fourteen</p>
			<p class="Subtitle-all-caps"><a id="_idTextAnchor080"></a>A reckless cut</p>
			<p class="Centred_Top-title"><span class="Italic"><a id="_idTextAnchor081"></a> <br/> </span></p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor082"></a>Sebastion and Esau descended further. Several doors stood in their way. All required opening, and that took time. A journey of minutes stretched into an hour, then longer. Finally, they reached the bottom.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Beyond the final door was a circular chamber. From it several heavily shielded doors led to various other chambers of strategic import. Bodies preserved by the vacuum lay about, all of them showing the signs of violent death. Lasguns and boltguns, not claws and acid, had felled these warriors. Chapter serfs lay among warriors dressed in the uniforms of Sotha’s modest defence forces.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Treachery,’ said Sebastion. ‘Our own kind turned against us.’ He pushed over the frozen remains of a three-armed abomination. ‘No other race is so foul.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘These two doors are still sealed,’ said Esau. ‘No sign of enemy presence.’ </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sebastion approached one of the doors and rested his hand upon the metal. ‘Here is the place our Chapter fell&#160;– not on the walls, but here.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A few minutes’ work saw the door mechanisms hooked up to Sebastion’s power unit and unlocked with Chapter cypher codes.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Open,’ Sebastion commanded the door-spirit.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The instant the door cracked, a rush of stale air blasted from inside. They walked down an access corridor guarded by dormant guns. Nothing had been touched. The tyranid swarm had never made it into that part of the monastery.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Then they passed through another door into battery command, and witnessed there the results of betrayal. Though the swarm had been kept outside, the subverted warriors of Sotha had broken in.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The xenos slaves came in through the wall from the cavern,’ said Sebastion. He pointed out a square melta-cut through the side of the room. ‘This is how we fell. Emperor alone knows how they got through the mountain.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He strode forwards into a scene of battle preserved by the airless dark. Mummified corpses lay everywhere. Many were mortal servants of the Chapter, their uniforms discoloured by spilled fluids and covered with frost. Many more were others dressed in the uniforms of the Sotharan defence force. There were more misshapen creatures among them.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The twisted progeny of man and alien,’ said Sebastion.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">At the centre of the room there was a single transhuman figure slumped over the command station, a lasgun wound to the back of his head, placed exactly where it would kill him. An empty bolt pistol lay on the console near his open hand. Sebastion stopped when he saw him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Brother Balthazar,’ said Sebastion. ‘Commander of the Batteries. Look, Esau, upon a hero of the Imperium. His body was ruined in battle. Still he served. I crafted these augmetics myself. No legs, one arm, his spine destroyed. He could have taken the Emperor’s mercy. He could have requested a Dreadnought’s tomb, but he opted to retire here where he might serve more. He always loved the biggest guns.’ Sebastion looked around at the corpses in the room. All had died violently. A couple of skeletal figures not far from the battery commander lay savagely embraced, hands locked about each other’s throats. ‘Three hundred years of loyal service,’ said Sebastion. ‘Treachery was his reward. They shut down the guns and the void shields. We thought we were safe. We were wrong.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sebastion stood in silent contemplation a moment, surveying the room as if it were a shrine. Then with a sudden growl of active motors, he began to move briskly, the arms of his servoharness picking up the corpses and moving them aside. Frozen limbs broke from torsos. Skulls wearing cracked masks of skin bounced along the floor. ‘Esau, aid me. Remove the dead from here. I must access the control panels.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">As they worked, the room thrummed to the surge of returning power. Screens came on under corpses welded to them by blood and ice.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The archmagos has done his part,’ said Sebastion. ‘Time for us to do ours.’ He went to the desk and blew frozen blood out of a primary input port with a jet of hot, compressed air. A mechadendrite emerged from his backpack and extended, a dataspike emerging from its spinning end.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The spike plunged home.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Curious,’ said Sebastion. ‘I am not getting any response from the fortress-monastery datanet.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Forgemaster,’ said Esau. ‘Is this the cause?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sebastion looked to where Esau was pointing, his mechadendrite extracting itself and retracting as he turned.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Not far from the xeno-slaves’ ingress the room was breached a second time, by a silver spear of metal which split into smaller threads and wormed their way into the casings of machines. Invisible in the dark, they glinted malevolently under the revived lumens.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Xenos subversion tendrils, same as on the parapets. More blasphemy.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Scanning beams played over the tendrils from Sebastion’s armour as he approached.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘By Mars, it’s in everything.’ He went closer to the main root of silvery metal. ‘I dare not sever this.’ He walked alongside the spread of filaments, following one thread as it split and split again.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Here is the defence laser matrix,’ he said, reaching a boxy cogitator casing.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">An arm lifted upon his back. The plasma cutter ignited.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Forgive me, spirit of this mechanism, for what I must do,’ he intoned. ‘This will not be an elegant repair,’ Sebastion said to Esau. ‘If I sever these linkages, it should remove the xenos influence from the main battery. Once it is expunged, we will remotely spike the guns, and the fleet will be able to draw near. We have no hope of saving them, not without risking their use against our own ships.’ He ran his hands along the path of the silver thread, not quite touching it. ‘Cutting this will provoke a response from the mountain. You must watch over me. Do not trust what you see.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sebastion opened a vox-channel to all the expedition members.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Brothers, archmagos. I have reached battery command and am about to commence excision of xenos infiltration. Destruction of orbital defences will follow. Prepare yourselves.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He lowered the plasma cutter towards the thread.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The mountain began to shake before the flame touched the metal.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Esau raised his storm bolter, and stood guard.</p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor083"></a>Felix cut connection with the fleet.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It is done,’ he said. ‘The transport is prepared to come. The fleet is on standby for extraction. We shall go within.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Gathein and he went inside the turret, descending metal steps towards the top level of the citadel.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I wish you to perform another psychic scan of the mountain, Epistolary,’ said Felix when they were halfway down. ‘I want to know if the increased activity has any effect on the etheric readability of the–’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He stopped on a short landing. Gathein was nowhere to be seen. There was nowhere he could have gone. The inside of the turret was a hollow circle. The access stairs to the roof ran in a dull red circuit around the walls. Cables were neatly pinned to the ancient rockcrete, broken by a junction box decorated with a jawless steel skull. The room was completely featureless besides these few details. There was a single way in, and a single way out. Gathein had vanished.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Gathein!’ Felix brought his weaponry online with a thought. Powerfields crackled in the quiet.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He went back up the stairs to the armoured hatch leading to the roof. It was shut tight. He slammed his shoulder into the hatch, causing it to boom, but it would not budge.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Gathein,’ he voxed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Soft static replied.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Decimus!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A soft voice called to him from the ground, impossible in the vacuum, and yet he distinctly heard it. The door into the main body of the tower was closing. Felix caught a glimpse of movement before it swung closed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Gathein? Gathein, I have a contact, I am in pursuit, tower upper level. Follow me if you can.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He carried on down the stairs and went out cautiously, his boltstorm gauntlet held out in front of him. There was another stair down, a short flight that led into a hall in the centre of the tower. Several rooms occupied the level, all empty cells. Felix didn’t know much of the Scythes’ cult, but they looked like isolation rooms or meditation cells. They were all lockable from the outside only, each one having a hard cot and a single water spout.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He searched them one at a time. Nothing was in any of them. They must have been unoccupied at the time of the invasion, because they were undamaged. No real attack had come against the tower. The tyranids always went where there was prey.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Still, he was careful, pushing open the door with his closed power fist, the machine-spirit of his twinned guns ready to fire.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Atmospheric mix was pouring into the tower. The hiss of it grew in volume as the air thickened. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He’d checked five cells when he heard a burst of musical laughter from the end of the corridor. He backed out of the cell he was in quickly, banging the wall hard with his bulky armour. The door in the last cell was closing. Again there was a flash of movement.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Wait!’ called Felix.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The door closed. He heard it now. Sound was filling the tower along with the air.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He ran down the corridor. The door was locked and would not open. The lock was a simple slide bar, sturdy enough to shut a Space Marine inside, but not sophisticated. No matter how hard he tugged on it, it would not move. He felt a terrible urge to get inside the room.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Thracian, Cawl, Cominus, respond.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The vox hissed in his ear.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Gathein!’ he shouted. His amplified voice killed the silence. The tower closed in on him. It seemed aware.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Decimus?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The soft voice came from the other side of the door, and he knew it.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Nonus?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Come on, Decimus!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Nonus!’ he shouted. His head swam. He couldn’t focus, couldn’t think. Nonus was dead. A period of time large enough to swallow the birth and death of an empire separated them. He knew this. Why then did he raise his fist with a cry and slam it into the bolt?</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The door exploded off its hinges into the room, clanging off the wall. Felix plunged in.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The moist fronds of ferns slapped him in the face.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Decimus!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He was running. His feet were bare. Turf gave beneath his toes.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Decimus, come find me!’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Nonus!’ he shouted.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He burst into a familiar clearing. Nonus was kneeling on the grass, an array of toys laid out in front of him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Nonus,’ Felix said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Nonus looked up from his playthings.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘You came! I’m so glad. I miss you. Come play with me.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix held up his hands in amazement. They were human, unmodified. More than that, they were a boy’s hands. He went over to his brother. He was the age he had been when Felix was taken, millennia ago, the day he was supposed to go to the Fortress of Hera, but was taken off the lighter moments before it launched.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Is this a memory?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Nonus shook his head.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix walked forwards cautiously, taking everything in with a Space Marine’s attentiveness. It was comical in a small boy and his brother laughed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It’s exactly as I remember it. The forest dome of Pembria park. The arboretum.’ He looked through a tangle of trees. High above them the crystalflex of an agri dome glinted in the sunlight. Laphis was too dry and sunburned to support natural forests. Grassland predominated. The only forests were in the parks. ‘I remember it all.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He picked up a small toy, a mass-produced spacecraft bearing the iconography of the XIII Legion. ‘This was mine. I wanted to join them so badly.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Nonus smiled. He had been three years younger than Felix, and looked upon him as if Felix were the centre of his universe. The future tetrarch felt a stab of pain in his single heart.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I know.’ </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He patted his brother’s knee and took the toy from his hand. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Where did you go? You were supposed to go to Macragge, but you vanished.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix made a noise halfway between a laugh and a sob.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Where didn’t I go? It wasn’t my fault. I’m so sorry.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We didn’t expect to see you again, but we never got to hear that you arrived. We never got news like the others. When we found out you were gone we were so sad. Mother cried every day for years. Father never smiled. People talked about you. They thought you’d done something wrong. Some of them said so, to mother, and that made her cry more. I tried to be happy for them, but I couldn’t. I tried and tried, but she cried and he never smiled. I missed you. We never knew what happened to you. Father never gave up. Never. Petitions to the enforcers, to the arbitrators when that didn’t work, then to the Ultramarines. He got into trouble. An arbitrator came to tell him off. But he never gave up. He was sad. So was I. Right until the day I died.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Did you have a good life?’ asked Felix, half-dreading the answer.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I did.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I am sorry I was not there to share it.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It’s all right. You’re here now.’ Nonus smiled at him. ‘Nine and ten, together again.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Felix ruffled his brother’s hair. ‘She wanted ten children.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘He only two.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘She counted down.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They giggled at the joke in their names.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Father let her after, you know,’ he said. ‘She had four more, my brothers and sisters. But we never forgot you, my biggest and best brother.’ He smiled up at Felix in a way that crushed his heart.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I’m sorry,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Well, you’re here now. Hey!’ said Nonus, suddenly cheerful, pointing up. ‘Let’s climb the big tree.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Which one?’ said Felix. All the trees in the arboretum were big, huge Macraggian oaks and silverpine.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘The very biggest,’ said Nonus.</p>
			<p class="No_Indent"><a id="_idTextAnchor084"></a>Gas hissed through vents into the apothecarion. Repressurisation to tolerable levels took only a few minutes. Yansar set to work on Tullio as soon as he was able.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He salvaged what materials he could from the Scythes’ medical centre. Everything was in disarray, but he was able to put together a kit for the procedure that was far more versatile than his battlefield equipment. While he was waiting for atmosphere, he brought the apothecarion’s medicae units into operation, including cleansing and sterilisation cabinets that he used upon the equipment. When the air pressure was high enough, he began cutting Tullio’s armour away with a power saw. Dull metallic flakes of ceramite were gathered up and sucked away by a vacuum tube attached to the saw. When the plate was cut, he took out spray bottles of solvent and doused the area, softening the hardened gels that held the broken plate together.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">This took several minutes. While he waited, he removed his helmet. Retinal displays made certain procedures easier, but he preferred to see what he was doing with his naked eyes, and removing the helmet gave his head a greater range of movement, important in a tricky operation such as this.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He checked the screens of the machine he had hooked up to the medical ports in Tullio’s armour. The device constantly sampled the Space Marine’s blood. Yansar was particularly attentive to the levels of pseudo hormones that governed the Belisarian furnace housed in Tullio’s chest cavity. He frowned at the data, and adjusted the amount of counteragent the machine was pumping into him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Not yet,’ he said to himself. ‘Let’s have a good look in there first.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yansar had removed Tullio’s power plant to get him into the cot. Power was being supplied to his suit by a large battery pack under the table. Now he took Tullio’s helmet off, easing it from his head. Tullio was in chemical sleep, and his head lolled. Yansar laid it carefully against his armour neck ring.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Next he busied himself with the bolts locking Tullio’s wargear together. He selected the appropriate head for the power driver mounted in his gauntlet. The blow that had wounded Tullio had been hard but not brutally so, so the chestplate was shredded but not badly distorted. All except one of the bolts came out as they should. The last was bent and had him clucking his tongue in annoyance. He retracted his driver and picked up the powersaw. Cutting lockbolts was difficult and made him feel more like a Techmarine than an Apothecary. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">By the time the bolts were dealt with, the sealant gels were sufficiently softened. A shallow scan showed bonding between the foam and Tullio’s clotted blood, gluing his mangled breastplate, under-armour and his bodyglove into his wounds.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘I’ll be as gentle as I can, brother,’ said Yansar. ‘Because this will be painful.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He eased the breastplate off. The under-plating was badly buckled and came away with the chest plate. A large section of Tullio’s bodyglove lifted, tearing scabs away from wounds. Dark blood welled.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yansar scowled. The wounds were worse than he thought.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Tullio’s eyes flickered. His head rolled.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Steady, brother.’ Yansar worked quickly to cut away the bodyglove. A surgical laser mounted on his backpack arm vaporised fragments of plastek in the wound. The blood slowed. Larraman cells clotted it quickly.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yansar extruded an array of lenses from his collar. They separated, and one flipped down in front of his right eye, magnifying the trauma site and highlighting flecks of ceramite and plastek in green. Yansar plucked them out with a tweezer, and pulled away the last of the torn bodyglove. After that, he took away Tullio’s belly plating, cutting out the bodyglove from there as well.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Tullio’s torso was naked from his belt to his neck. The wound was fully exposed&#160;– two long furrows that cut diagonally down from left to right. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The furrows started within a hairsbreadth of the arteries pulsing in the hollow of Tullio’s neck, and raked across the site of his primary heart, where the fused box of his rib cage had been exposed and shone whitely in parted meat. Past that, the ribs had been breached. The claws of the xenos were so sharp that they had cut cleanly through rather than breaking the bone.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yansar peered into the wound. The source of the vitae was an internal bleed that would have finished a mortal human. A Space Marine’s blood was more easily staunched, but an arterial tear like that could still kill, given enough time, and the danger of embolisms caused by hyperclotted blood circulating round Tullio’s system could not be underestimated.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He had to cut away a section of Tullio’s rib box to get to the injury. He was quick. Through a gap an inch square, a world of engineered organs was revealed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Tullio’s eyes flickered. He moaned. Yansar refrained from upping his sedation. He was nearly done.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yansar’s narthecium extended a probe, which he inserted into the hole. As he did so he changed the setting on his lenses so that they projected a laser drawn view of Tullio’s innards onto his retina, the same way his helm could.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">So much was packed into a Space Marine’s body cavity, organs of such refined design and function no evolutionary process could have created them. Yansar allowed himself to feel awed as he worked. Few beings got to see what he saw. Cawl might name himself creator of the Primaris Space Marines, but this was the Emperor’s work Yansar was witnessing.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The bleed was easily found, a tiny nick. Five bursts from the micro-las attached to the probe broke up the clots around it. A tiny grabber whipped out from the probe to clamp the tear shut while Yansar unfurled an adhesive web to close it. Once he allowed Tullio’s enhanced systems to operate freely, the wound would heal fully within a day.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Tullio was stirring. Yansar increased the tempo of the operation. He withdrew the probe, then replaced the section of removed bone and stapled it to hold still while he sealed it up with a bone welder he’d taken from a cabinet. That done, he pulled the skin back into place, sutured the cuts closed and sprayed them with healing balms. He gave his work one last look over. He was satisfied, and permitted himself a smile.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He turned to the machine and disengaged the pumps filling Tullio’s body with hormone suppressant. In a few moments, his Emperor’s gifts would engage and finish Yansar’s job for him.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There was a click, the soft, sharp noise of a safety catch being disengaged.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He turned back to Tullio. He had his bolt pistol in his hand. Slowly, he raised it to point at Yansar’s head.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Get down,’ said Tullio hoarsely.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yansar dropped to the floor.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Tullio fired once. The report, ignition and explosion of the bolt blurred into one loud boom that reverberated around the small room.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yansar looked around.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">On the ground were the smoking remains of a mechanoid drone.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The Apothecary walked over and nudged it with his foot. Six metal legs curled around its broken mechanical thorax.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Xenos,’ he said. ‘Necron. It came through the vent.’ He looked up to where a grille had covered over an air circulation shaft. The centre had been neatly disintegrated.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Quiet,’ said Tullio. ‘Can you hear that?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The sound of rustling came from outside the theatre door. Yansar drew his absolver pistol.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Help me up,’ said Tullio hoarsely.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Stay there, brother. Cover me from the cot. You will not regain your strength for an hour or more. Let your body heal.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘There’s not time, something’s coming.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Stay down!’ Yansar went to the door and keyed it open, stopping it partway with a second press of the button.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The room on the other side was crawling with small, hexapedal robots. Flat green beams of light shone from their heads. Where they touched, matter frittered away into particles, which others of the swarm sucked up. The robots crawled over everything. A line of them entered and a line departed, carrying away their bounty as diligently as ants.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They did not appear to see Yansar, and he quickly shut the door.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘More of them.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Fetch me my bolt rifle,’ said Tullio, gesturing weakly to the stand the gun rested on. Yansar strode across the room, picked it up and handed it to Tullio. The veteran checked it over, and racked a bolt into the firing chamber.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘If they attack, grenades will be of more use,’ said Yansar. ‘There are many of them.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘What about my armour? It will be hard to fight like this.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘It needs repair,’ said Yansar. ‘We’re going to need help to get out of here.’ He activated the vox. ‘Tetrarch, this is Yansar, respond,’ he voxed.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A menacing static hiss filled his hearing.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Tetrarch, we have a problem.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘No contact?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Yansar held up a hand.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Apothecary!’ Tullio aimed at the door.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Dozens of spots of green light began to shine through the metal of the theatre door.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Perhaps you’d better get up after all,’ said Yansar, going to help Tullio to his feet.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The vox whined.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Tetrarch?’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The sound of boltgun fire came with a distorted voice.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘This is Thracian.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We are under attack. We are trapped in theatre four of the apothecarion.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text"><span class="Italic">‘Then we are coming to you.’</span></p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The door was frittering away to nothing, craters growing around the dots of light.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Hurry,’ said Yansar.</p>
			<p class="No_Indent">‘<a id="_idTextAnchor085"></a>Forgemaster, something approaches.’ Esau datacast readings from his suit sensorium to Sebastion. A swarm of red dots crawled down towards their position on his cartograph. ‘The location and manner of enemy is uncertain,’ said Esau.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Whatever they are, they are on the exterior of strategic command,’ said Sebastion calmly. ‘Stand ready. I am nearly finished. The xenos machine infection is too widespread for me to regain control. All organic servitor components of the fortress network are gone, but the invading xenos network has replaced them. I have to rig the primary cogitation junction for detonation to prevent the mountain regaining control, then destroy the weapons themselves.’ He looked upwards. The multiple arms of his servo harness continued to work around him. ‘See to it I complete the task. If we leave these weapons active, I predict all will return to functionality and be suborned by the mountain. The fleet is in danger. Destruction of this nexus must be achieved.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘As you command, Forgemaster,’ said Esau.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Filaments of living metal lay shrivelled all around the main cogitation array. He had freed it, for now, but the speed with which the strands stirred and began to reconstruct themselves suggested they would not remain sundered for long. Having removed all linkages from the surface, Sebastion found more beneath. He burned back what he could. </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Esau’s cartolith pulsed with movement.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They are gathering above us. Concentration here.’ He sent the location to Sebastion and raised his storm bolter to aim at the ceiling. ‘Increasing energy emissions. They are coming through.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Esau’s power fist crackled into life, sending dancing blue light around the room that brought false life to the dead.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sebastion unclamped a melta flask from his thigh. He depressed a panel in the side, exposing the input jack for a remote detonator. He attached this with his human hands while the arms of the servoharness darted and cut, driving back tendrils of the silver metal reinvading the systems. With the detonator in place, he twisted the handle on the top of the bomb to arm it, then placed it within the machine.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Forgemaster,’ Esau said calmly. ‘I see them.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A portion of the ceiling glowed green. A faint square, brighter to the centre, where a growing black dot spread outwards.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sebastion glanced up at the breach. ‘Gauss beams. I hypothesise first wave canoptek organisms. We have awoken the guardians of the mountain, my brother.’ </p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Metal and rockcrete was being broken down into black, grainy particulate that pattered down from the ceiling like the sands in an hourglass.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘We will never be able to reoccupy this site,’ said Esau. The brighter green spread to the very edges of the square. The blackness within it followed, compressing the green tighter and brighter; though both green and black were circular, neither exceeded the limits of the square. More disrupted matter fell.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Initiating control implosion in main batteries.’ Sebastion’s many hands danced over the dusty console. The first of four cylinders rose from beneath a screen.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A tocsin honked, followed by a machine voice. &lt;Warning. Defence battery control system self-destruct active.&gt;</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A small red cap flipped open on top of the first cylinder, revealing a dataport. ‘Priming first defence laser denial device. Execute.’ Sebastion’s data shunt stabbed down into the lock, twisted, and depressed the cylinder. Code readers chimed acknowledgement. A brief tremor shook the room as the gun blew.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">&lt;Defence laser one inactive.&gt;</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The second cylinder rose upwards and exposed its dataport.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Now this is the one that caused the trouble in the first place. The active cannon that fired upon the tetrarch,’ Sebastion said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Again his data interface slammed down. A second clarion of chimes. Another explosive rumble.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">&lt;Defence laser two inactive.&gt;</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The third cylinder was rising when Esau spoke.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘They are coming through.’</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The square turned into a perfect shaft burrowed through dozens of feet of layered armour. Something moved back at the top, the green light cast by its mechanisms shifting over the floor.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">A flood of robotic drones dropped through.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Esau opened fire. He paced his shooting. Storm bolters were destructive, but ate ammunition greedily.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Hurry,’ he said.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He couldn’t kill them all. Many of the insectoid robots exploded but more crashed onto the floor, where they drew themselves up into a living carpet of silver. They poured in all directions, covering the floor with their undulations. A thousand green ocular sensors shone. They swarmed Esau’s legs, and he stamped them flat. Where they clambered up his legs he plucked them free from his body and crushed them in his power fist. They exploded with mighty bangs. Mandibles twitched over his plating, playing spreads of deadly light. Ceramite and plasteel dissolved into nothing. Exposed systems sparked with short circuits before they too were dissolved. Still he continued firing.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">&lt;Defence laser four inactive.&gt;</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sebastion hurried. The living metal of the mountain was growing back quickly, accelerated by the presence of the drones. The upper limbs of his servoharness darted into the cogitation junction, cutting and burning. The lower pair reversed themselves, switched out their utility heads for short range plasma casters, and opened fire.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Now the lesser batteries,’ Sebastion said. Eight more cylinders. Two went down, the charges they were connected to detonating deep within the fortress-monastery and ripping out huge tranches of the control systems. Esau gave out a moan of pain.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">He was being overwhelmed. Silver covered him head to toe, lit by flashes of gauss light. His storm bolter blasted a hole in the swarm, then vanished.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Esau’s flailing shape stood a moment longer, then collapsed in on itself. The swarm spread and flooded over the floor towards Sebastion. More of the drones were coming through the hole in the wall bored through by the traitors, during the fall of the fortress.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">Sebastion left the last six cylinders, took up his bolter and turned to face his doom.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Severing your master’s link was a reckless cut, but it is done. Our guns will never be yours.’ He opened fire.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">They came at him in a wave. He emptied his magazine into them and blasted their front rank apart. His servo arms whirled about, slaying hundreds with the energies of captive stars.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">There were too many.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">‘Detonate,’ Sebastion commanded.</p>
			<p class="Body_Text">The melta charge in the cogitation junction responded. Fusion glow backlit the Forgemaster as he fought, then fire ripped through the strategium, driving the dark back into the Pharos.</p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>