<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
		<title>17-40k-Legal</title>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/idGeneratedStyles_11.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<meta name="description" content="CL Release"/>
</head>
	<body id="x17-40k-Legal" xml:lang="en-GB">
		<div id="_idContainer015" class="_idGenObjectStyleOverride-1">
			<p id="_idParaDest-34" class="NOBR_Chapter_Legal_Page"><a id="_idTextAnchor164"></a>A Black Library Publication</p>
			<p class="Centred_Text">First published in Great Britain in 2019.<br/>This eBook edition published in 2019 by Black Library, Games Workshop Ltd, Willow Road, Nottingham, NG7 2WS, UK.</p>
			<p class="Centred_Text">Produced by Games Workshop in Nottingham.<br/>Cover illustration by Akim Kaliberda.</p>
			<p class="Centred_Text">Belisarius Cawl: The Great Work © Copyright Games Workshop Limited 2019. Belisarius Cawl: The Great Work, GW, Games Workshop, Black Library, The Horus Heresy, The Horus Heresy Eye logo, Space Marine, 40K, Warhammer, Warhammer 40,000, the ‘Aquila’ Double-headed Eagle logo, and all associated logos, illustrations, images, names, creatures, races, vehicles, locations, weapons, characters, and the distinctive likenesses thereof, are either ® or TM, and/or © Games Workshop Limited, variably registered around the world.<br/>All Rights Reserved.</p>
			<p class="Centred_Text">A CIP record for this book is available from the British Library.</p>
			<p class="Centred_Text">ISBN: 978-1-78999-718-7</p>
			<p class="Centred_Text">This is a work of fiction. All the characters and events portrayed in this book are fictional, and any resemblance to real people or incidents is purely coincidental.</p>
			<p class="Centred_Text">See Black Library on the internet at<br/><a href="http://www.blacklibrary.com">blacklibrary.com</a></p>
			<p class="Centred_Text">Find out more about Games Workshop’s world of Warhammer and the Warhammer 40,000 universe at<br/><a href="http://www.games-workshop.com">games-workshop.com</a></p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>